--- PAGE 1 ---
0

The Influence of Securities Analysts on Innovation: An Evolutionary Approach

Mary J. Benner
3-365 Carlson School of Management
University of Minnesota
321-19th Avenue South
Minneapolis, MN 55455
612-626-6660
mbenner@umn.edu

Daniel Beunza
Faculty of Management
Cass Business School
106 Bunhill Row
London, EC1Y 8TZ
+44 20 7040 8622
daniel.beunza@city.ac.uk

January 15, 2020

Preliminary Draft – Please do not cite or quote without permission

--- PAGE 2 ---
1

The Influence of Securities Analysts on Innovation: An Evolutionary Approach

Abstract

The literature on sell-side securities analysts is marked by a debate about their influence on innovation.
Some researchers find analysts supportive of innovation, spurring high valuations for innovative firms,
while others emphasize their constraints on firms. We take an evolutionary view to reconcile this contrast.
We consider evolution in technology and the shifting characteristics of industry contexts in addition to
evolution in analysts’ “interpretive frames,” i.e. the categories, schema, and narratives that shape analysts’
evaluations of the firms they cover and explain how firms’ strategies link to stock valuations. We present
our theory in three parts: nascent industries sparked by technological change, where analysts develop new
interpretive frames to make sense of radical innovation by new firms, convergent periods of technology
evolution, where analyst frames become increasingly institutionalized, and technological discontinuities
affecting incumbents in existing industries. We describe the mechanisms underlying changes in analysts’
interpretive frames as the industry technology evolves, and develop testable predictions about the
influences of analysts’ evolving frames on firm innovation. Our theory depicts how analysts make sense
of nascent industries and develop new interpretive frames that enable radical innovation, while
institutionalized frames enable incremental but dampen radical innovation by firms already categorized in
existing industries.

--- PAGE 3 ---
2

Researchers across multiple fields have begun to study securities analysts’1 reactions to – and
influences on – innovation and novelty (e.g. Benner, 2010; Benner & Ranganathan, 2012; 2013; 2017;
Beunza & Garud, 2007; Derrien & Kecskes, 2013; Guo, Perez-Castrillo, & Toldra-Simats, 2019; He &
Tian, 2013; Litov, Moreton, & Zenger, 2012; Theeke, Polidoro, & Fredrickson, 2017). This research is
marked by contrasting findings. Some scholars find that analysts dampen innovation and novelty in firms,
through their coverage decisions or the content of their recommendations (e.g. Benner & Ranganathan,
2012; He & Tian, 2013; Theeke et al, 2017). Yet, other work finds a positive influence of analysts on
innovation (Derrien & Kecskes, 2013; Guo et al, 2019), and portrays analysts as supportive enablers of
innovation, in particular, facilitating high stock prices for innovative firms (e.g. Beunza and Garud, 2007).
These divergent views in research coincide with notable examples: Analysts were critical of Verizon’s
investments to respond to the radical technological change in telecommunications that would allow it to
compete with cable firms (Benner, 2010; Benner & Ranganathan, 2017). But analysts also play an
important part in enabling high stock market valuations (i.e. lower costs of capital) for publicly traded
firms like Amazon, Uber, or Tesla, that pursue novel technologies and business models (e.g. Beunza &
Garud, 2007; Damodaran, 2017).
We develop theory to help explain this puzzle by considering how analysts’ influences on innovation
changes as an industry technology evolves. Our starting point is evolutionary theory (Aldrich & Ruef,
2006), and specifically, research on technological evolution (e.g. Abernathy & Utterback, 1978; Anderson
& Tushman, 1990; Tushman & Anderson, 1986). This theory depicts phases of technological change
unfolding in industries, beginning with major technological discontinuities, i.e. radical innovation that
shifts the base of knowledge underlying the products in an industry (e.g. Henderson & Clark, 1990) and

1 Consistent with prior research on analysts in the management literature, we focus on the “sell-side” securities analysts who
function as intermediaries in capital markets (e.g. Benner & Ranganathan, 2012; Brauer & Wiersema, 2018; Zuckerman, 1999;
2000). Sell-side analysts typically specialize in one or two industries, providing forecasts of firms’ earnings and stock prices,
assessments of how firms’ strategies will influence financial performance and stock prices, and recommendations to “buy,”
“hold,” or “sell” a firm’s stock. Sell-side analysts function as the “critics” in research about the influences of categories in equity
markets (Zuckerman 1999; 2000; 2004). “For the community of publicly traded organizations, securities analysts thus operate as
powerful arbiters of categorical conformity to cultural codes” (Aldrich and Ruef, 2006:197).

--- PAGE 4 ---
3

triggers an era of ferment, i.e. a period of rapid innovation, variation, and high uncertainty about the
technology and how quickly it will diffuse. Eras of ferment typically close with the emergence (selection)
of a technical standard (a “dominant design”), often the outcome of competition between product designs,
but also influenced by social, political, and organizational factors (Murmann & Frenken, 2006; Tushman
& Rosenkopf, 1992). Periods of convergence follow dominant designs, characterized by firms engaging
in incremental innovation that elaborates and improves the selected technology.
We ask how analysts influence innovation as an industry technology evolves. We propose that the
main mechanism underlying analysts’ influences on innovation is the corresponding evolution in their
“interpretive frames” as technology evolves. Interpretive frames include the “category,” i.e. the firms
classified into the industry an analyst covers (Zuckerman, 1999), the accompanying “schemas” analysts
use to evaluate the firms they cover (e.g. Benner & Ranganathan, 2017; Feldman, 2016; Hsu, 2006), and
the “narratives,” or stories (Damodaran, 2017; Wansleben, 2012) 2 that explain how the strategies and
financial performance of firms in the category translate into stock valuations. In considering evolution in
interpretive frames, our theory also builds on prior research on socio-cognitive categories and category
evolution (Grodal, Gotsopoulos, & Suarez, 2015; Navis & Glynn, 2010; Ruef & Patterson, 2009;
Zuckerman 1999; 2000; 2004).
We address the puzzle that motivates our paper by describing how analysts have both a positive and
negative influence on firm innovation as an industry technology evolves. We depict these influences in
three parts, considering how analysts influence radical and incremental innovation in new firms and
incumbents. First, in nascent industries sparked by technological discontinuities, analysts engage in
sensemaking interactions with investors, executives, and other analysts to develop new interpretive
frames; in turn, these frames help explain and enable the radical innovation undertaken by new firms in
eras of ferment. Second, as the technology evolves through a phase of convergence characterized by

2 “Narratives” explain how the activities and performance of firms in a category translate to stock valuations. This broad concept
is similar to other concepts that have been used in the literature to describe related ideas, such as “stories” (Wansleben, 2012),
“analogies” (Beunza & Garud, 2007) or “logics” (Benner & Ranganathan, 2017).

--- PAGE 5 ---
4

incumbent firms engaging in incremental innovation, analysts’ interpretive frames similarly converge.
With increasing institutionalization in interpretive frames, analysts become enforcers of categorical
boundaries, rewarding incumbents for category-conforming incremental innovation. Third, when
subsequent technological discontinuities challenge incumbents in existing industries, analysts’
institutionalized frames persist, continuing to reward incumbents’ incremental innovations while
penalizing radical innovations, even in settings of discontinuous technological change. We further
consider how managerial actions in these different stages of evolution can shape analysts’ reactions. We
draw on theory and evidence from past research to support our deductive theory and develop testable
propositions. We depict the mechanisms in our theory in Figure 1.
Our work makes three important contributions. First, we contribute to research on the influence of
sell-side securities analysts’ on firms. We explain the divergent findings in prior work and provide new
insights into how analysts shape innovation. Prior research on analysts has considered their influences on
innovation and has found both positive and negative effects, but has not explained how it can be that
analysts both enable and constrain innovation. Prior work has not studied how analysts’ views of
innovation shift across different phases of technology evolution. By theorizing about how technological
change shapes analysts’ interpretive frames, and in turn how analysts’ frames shape innovation, we
provide fresh insights into the influence of analysts, as important capital market participants, on
innovation outcomes for different types of firms. We unpack the specific mechanisms that underlie the
shifts from analysts enabling radical innovation for new firms in nascent industries as they initially
develop interpretive frames, to enabling incremental but constraining radical innovation in already-
categorized incumbent firms as these frames become institutionalized. Innovation is an important engine
underlying the growth and success of firms, industries, and nations, and a rich stream of research has
sought to understand the forces that facilitate it (e.g. Tushman & Nelson, 1990; Solow, 1957). As analysts
directly influence the availability of capital for public firms and therefore, their resources for innovation,
a better understanding of the factors that shape analysts’ influences on firm innovation is critical for

--- PAGE 6 ---
5

gaining an understanding of the drivers of innovation more generally. Our theory also points to
underlying reasons why new firms in nascent industries may appear more innovative than incumbents.
Second, our work contributes to theories of technological evolution. Theories of technology evolution
typically consider how a body of new scientific or engineering knowledge influences technological
change and subsequent firm outcomes, but this work has not studied how firms’ categorization in public
equity markets influences both the outcomes for firm innovation and technological evolution more
broadly. Our work further suggestions how coevolution in technology and analysts’ frames unfolds.
While variation and convergence in analysts’ interpretive frames are driven, in part, by corresponding
phases of technology evolution, evolving analyst frames further support these phases of technological
evolution. Specifically, the formation of new analysts’ frames during eras of ferment is driven in part by
the technological discontinuity and corresponding variation in technical designs, but the creation of new
interpretive frames also explains and supports the technological variation during these periods.
Correspondingly, periods of technological convergence drive convergence in analysts’ frames, while the
convergence in frames also rewards incumbent firms for engaging in the incremental product and process
innovation that characterizes these periods.
Third, we contribute to research on the socio-cognitive processes that underpin industry emergence
and evolution (Benner & Tripsas, 2012; Bingham & Kahl, 2013; Grodal et al, 2015; Kaplan & Tripsas,
2008). Past work has not considered the important role of capital markets in how industries emerge and
evolve. We provide a deeper understanding of securities analysts as a key audience in industry and
category emergence, as they create, label and legitimate new categories of firms and enable sensemaking
about new phenomena. Understanding the role of securities analysts in industry emergence and evolution
is important since legitimation by analysts directly affects the availability of capital for firms’ innovative
efforts.
TECHNOLOGICAL DISCONTINUITIES AND NASCENT INDUSTRIES: ANALYST
INTERPRETIVE FRAME CREATION AND RADICAL INNOVATION BY NEW FIRMS

--- PAGE 7 ---
6

We first consider how analysts influence innovation in nascent industries sparked by technological
discontinuities. Our argument is that in new industries, analysts have opportunities to create new
interpretive frames for understanding novel phenomena. When they do and initiate coverage of new firms,
their efforts spur sensemaking interactions with managers and investors, enabling the radical innovation
by new firms that characterizes these periods.
Prior work studying how new industries are established and legitimated has highlighted the important
interactions between producers and audiences as they engage in sensemaking about the identities and
activities of firms classified in the category (Durand & Khaire, 2017; Navis & Glynn, 2010). Among
these audiences are securities analysts, the intermediaries who create the categories and evaluation criteria
to help investors in equity markets assess firms and make stock purchase decisions (Wansleben, 2012).
When analysts engage in interactions with investors and managers to create new interpretive frames, they
facilitate sensemaking about how to evaluate firms in new industry categories.
Daniel Reingold’s (Reingold & Reingold, 2006) description of his experiences as an analyst covering
the new telecommunications industry provides an example of the creation of an entirely new interpretive
frame for assessing firms in a new industry. Seven new telecommunications companies were created from
the breakup of AT&T in 1984 (i.e. the “Baby Bells,” or RBOCs, the Regional Bell Operating
Companies). Reingold highlights the new industry category and the heightened activities to “help
investors figure it all out,” via interactions between firms’ executives, investors, and analysts.
Every time a new industry came along, Wall Street staffed up with analysts, traders, and bankers to cover
it. …Wall Street desperately needed people who could help investors figure it all out. So in the early 1980s
the Street went on a hiring binge, recruiting practically everyone it could find with experience in both
financial analysis and the telecom sector….[analysts were] doing everything from analyzing the financial
trends in an industry to interviewing top executives to gauging the impact of upcoming regulatory
changes…

More evidence of the increased attention and search analysts devote to understanding new industries
is provided by the “initiating coverage” reports they produce on new industries. These lengthy reports

--- PAGE 8 ---
7

often contain 50-100 pages (CFI Institute)3 and more thorough analyses of industry-level information
than the typical reports on individual firms (Crawford, Roulstone, & So, 2012).
Beunza and Garud (2007) also highlight an example of a new industry category, Internet and New
Media, created by analysts around 1999, that included new firms in the nascent Internet industry. These
firms also were valued at a premium; these authors suggest that the new frames that analysts created
played a part in enabling their high valuations.
Yet it is not clear from prior research specifically what spurs analysts to create the entirely new
interpretive frames that enable sensemaking about new phenomena. While prior research has shown that
the industry categories that structure analysts’ coverage, once established, have important influences on
stock prices and firms’ strategies (Benner & Ranganathan, 2013; Zuckerman, 1999; 2000), this work does
not explain the emergence of new analyst categories. Findings from prior work further suggest that new
interpretive frames do not automatically arise due to a major technological discontinuity, even when firms
are engaging in radical innovation (Benner & Ranganathan, 2017). Therefore, understanding the
mechanisms that underlie the emergence of new analyst frames is important for understanding their
potential influences on innovation in nascent industries. Thus, we first describe mechanisms that underlie
the formation of new interpretive frames, and then propose how the activities to develop these new frames
shape analysts’ influences on innovation in nascent industries.
New Interpretive Frames in Nascent Industries
The creation of new interpretive frames in nascent industries frames is driven first, by the
technological discontinuity and corresponding factors that arise during an era of ferment, that increase the
difficulty of evaluating firms using already established interpretive frames. As firms undertake radical
innovation, involving new technologies, products, and business models that depart from existing
categories, analysts face increased difficulty using existing interpretive frames to categorize, evaluate, and
explain firms’ stock valuations. This challenge of valuation is even greater when the firms engaging in

3 https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/knowledge/valuation/equity-research-report/

--- PAGE 9 ---
8

uncertain radical innovation in a nascent industry are “growth” stocks, i.e. firms that have revenues but no
earnings or dividends (e.g. Benner, 2007; Benner & Ranganathan, 2013), and frequently have high
valuations (Aghion & Stein, 2008). Such firms are relatively common in nascent industries created by
new technologies, such as the dot-coms in the early years of the Internet, or more recent examples of
firms like Uber and Tesla. In these cases, understanding the relationships between firm performance and
investor behaviors is not straightforward, since stock price forecasts cannot proceed from conventional
calculations of valuation using discounted earnings or dividends (e.g. Brealey & Myers, 1984; see also
Zuckerman, 2004). Therefore, explaining and forecasting the stock valuations of these public firms likely
drives increased analyst attention to understanding the drivers of investors’ behaviors in the absence of
profits or dividends. For example, firms like Tesla, Uber, and AirBnb4, have little to no profit but
relatively high valuations, in particular higher than the values of their traditional industry counterparts
(i.e. auto, taxicab, and hotel firms, respectively), suggesting that investors are positive about the promise
of such firms (Damodaran, 2017). In such cases, narratives that explain investors’ behaviors become
particularly important for making sense of firms’ stock prices, triggering analysts’ activities to create new
interpretive frames.
However, findings from prior research also suggest that technological discontinuities and eras of
ferment do not necessarily spur analysts to create entirely new categories or schema for evaluating firms
(e.g. Benner & Ranganathan, 2017). Other research similarly finds that even when firms radically shift
their strategies or identities, analysts do not automatically create new categories or change their schemas
for evaluating such firms (Feldman, 2016; Tripsas, 2009).
Indeed, accounts of the triggers of new categories often involve entirely new firms, such as the
example of the dot-coms and Amazon in the late 1990s, the new firms that sparked the formation of a new
Internet industry category. This suggests a second important mechanism underlying the formation of new
interpretive frames: the entry of de novo firms into a nascent industry. In prior work on the “disk array”

4 AirBnB is not yet a public company, but currently is valued by private investors at $38 billion.

--- PAGE 10 ---
9

industry (McKendrick & Carroll, 2001), researchers similarly suggest the importance of de novo firms in
the process of legitimating a new industry category. These researchers found that despite 130 producers
of disk arrays, over $12 billion in annual revenues, and industry associations, the disk array industry did
not emerge as a recognized, legitimated industry category. They speculate that it was because most of the
entrants in the disk array industry were existing firms with a substantial portion of their activities (and
identities) still in other industry domains. They suggest further that recognition of an industry category by
external audiences is more likely when the new industry involves new firms.
As analysts ask “what type of firm is this?” in their efforts to categorize a firm, evaluate its
performance, and explain and anticipate its stock price, existing firms are analyzed within prevailing
categories. It is the new firms that are engaging in radical innovation and are not previously categorized in
existing industries that trigger analysts’ search and activities to create new interpretive frames.
Analysts’ Influence on Innovation in Nascent Industries
In turn, as analysts encounter difficulties evaluating the new firms that are undertaking radical
innovation and seek to explain the valuations of these firms, they undertake search and sensemaking
interactions with firms’ executives or founders and investors, determining how to classify firms and
evaluate their activities and financial performance. These activities include organizing investor
conferences that include buy-side investors and executives, as well as company visits for investors to
meet with managers (Groysberg & Healy, 2013: 29). Brown et al (2015) also found, in their survey of
analysts, that analysts regularly communicate with managers on quarterly earnings conference calls and
follow-ups on earnings conference calls. As analysts undertake these activities in nascent industries, they
develop and disseminate new interpretive frames, including the evaluative schemas and narratives that
explain how firms’ actions and performance translate into current and future stock prices (e.g. Beunza &
Garud, 2007; Damodaran, 2017; Wansleben, 2012). As frames develop, they help investors and other
analysts sort and assess these new firms, products, and business models, leading to increasing legitimation
of the new category (e.g. Navis & Glynn, 2010), and spurring further acceptance and adoption of the new
frame by investors and other analysts. As the narratives provided by analysts become accepted, they

--- PAGE 11 ---
10

further legitimate classification and evaluation of firms in the new category. Emerging interpretive frames
both reflect investors’ views of these nascent public firms and influence investors’ behaviors, as
“investors draw on analysts (critics) to learn about socially legitimated valuation” (Wansleben, 2012:16).
In nascent industries involving new firms engaged in novel activities, analysts therefore specifically shape
and disseminate explanations of how to evaluate firms engaging in radical innovation, enabling an
understanding of its value.
More generally, analyst coverage reduces information asymmetries and provides the important
recognition that improves firms’ stock price performance, reduces firms’ costs of capital, and enables
innovation (Derrien & Kecskes, 2014; Li & You, 2015; Litov et al, 2012; Mola, Rau, & Khorana, 2013).
Thus, to the extent that analysts make coverage decisions and engage in interactions to build and
disseminate new interpretive frames to facilitate understanding of new firms in nascent industries, these
industries and firms gain investor recognition, enabling the radical innovation they are undertaking during
eras of ferment.
Proposition 1: In nascent industries sparked by technological discontinuities, the more analysts
engage in sensemaking interactions with executives, investors, and other analysts to develop new
interpretive frames, the more they will be positive toward and enable radical innovation undertaken
by new firms.

These dynamics suggest further the potential for co-evolution in technology and analysts’ frames.
The development of (and variation in) analysts’ frames is driven in part by the advent of a discontinuous
technological change. But variation in analysts’ frames during an era of ferment also provides the
requisite variety for understanding and supporting the technological variation in this period. As new firms
enter with different radical innovations and competing technological designs, analysts are facilitating an
understanding of – and capital market support for – this variation. Therefore, while technological
variation drives variation in analysts’ frames, analysts’ sensemaking activities during eras of ferment also
support the technological variation that characterizes these periods.

--- PAGE 12 ---
11

TECHNOLOGY CONVERGENCE AND CATEGORY INSTITUTIONALIZATION:
INCREMENTAL INNOVATION BY INCUMBENT FIRMS

Next, we consider the convergent periods following the selection of a dominant design, characterized
by incumbent firms engaging in incremental innovation (Anderson & Tushman, 1990). Our argument is
that analysts’ interpretive frames similarly converge and become institutionalized during these periods,
and as they do, analysts’ activities shift to evaluating individual firms’ fit with prevailing interpretive
frames, supporting and enabling incremental innovation, while highlighting deviance and dropping
coverage or issuing negative evaluations as firms pursue innovation that departs from categorical
expectations.
Convergence in Interpretive Frames
Convergence and institutionalization in interpretive frames is driven first, by convergence in the
evolving technology. As one or a small number of technological standards emerges from among the
variation in previously competing designs (Anderson & Tushman, 1990; Grodal et al, 2015; Murmann &
Frenken, 2006), both technological and demand uncertainty are increasingly resolved (Anderson &
Tushman, 1990). Elimination of competing variants of the technological design simplifies market
participants’ understandings about how the technology and product designs work and are produced, as
well as about the features that are valued by customers (Benner & Tripsas, 2012). Correspondingly,
variation in - and uncertainty about - business models is also reduced, as managers, investors, and
analysts increasingly understand how firms’ activities and financial performance drive investor behaviors
and corresponding stock prices, making assessments increasingly straightforward. Selection among
technological designs typically involves selection among firms as well, via a “shakeout,” as a few firms
emerge as the industry leaders, while many firms exit the product class, typically those lacking
knowledge, capabilities, or products in the selected technology (Anderson & Tushman, 1990; Argyres,
Bigelow, & Nickerson, 2015; Murmann & Frenken, 2006). This reduction in the number of firms in the
industry further reduces variation and uncertainty. Taken together, these mechanisms, spurred by
convergence phase in the evolving technology, allow greater clarity about category membership, business

--- PAGE 13 ---
12

models, firm activities, and the appropriate ways to evaluate firms and anticipate stock values, driving
convergence in interpretive frames.
A second mechanism underlying interpretive frame convergence is the rise of one or a small number
of frames to dominance, as an analyst promoting a particular frame provides a more compelling narrative
than other analysts for explaining drivers of investor behavior and stock valuations. For example, in the
early years of the Internet, analysts held markedly different views of how to value the new Internet firms,
illustrated by the striking differences in valuation for Amazon (McGough & Wingfield, 2000). Analysts
ranged from categorizing Amazon as a high-tech company, with a valuation of $400 per share, to
categorizing it as a brick and mortar bookstore, with a valuation of $50 per share. A leading analyst’s
framing of Amazon as a high-tech firm provided a more accurate prediction and a clearer narrative for
explaining its high stock market valuation (Beunza & Garud, 2007).
As particular analysts appear prescient in their assessments and explanations, and as investors adopt
these frames, other analysts also adopt these frames, abandoning their own frames, and spurring further
convergence in interpretive frames. Conversely, when forecasts of future stock price arising from an
analyst’s frame are persistently inaccurate, analysts will be more likely to abandon these frames, also
driving convergence on the more compelling and accurate frames.
Prior work similarly suggests that in situations of high uncertainty, analysts imitate each other or even
herd, i.e. ignore their own private information and beliefs, and follow an emerging consensus view (Hong,
Kubik, & Solomon, 2000). Convergence in views among analysts also unfolds through social
psychological mechanisms such as social proof (Rao, Greve & Davis, 2001) or pluralistic ignorance (Zhu
& Westphal, 2011). Ideas about convergence in analysts’ frames are also echoed in research that
observes that analysts tend to use similar heuristics and metrics to evaluate firms within the same industry
category (e.g. Schipper, 1991; Zuckerman, 1999; Benner & Ranganathan, 2017).
With convergence in analysts’ interpretive frames, the surviving frames become increasingly
coherent, institutionalized, and “stricter” (e.g. Grodal, et al 2015; Ruef & Patterson, 2009). Scholars
adopting evolutionary views of category change (e.g. Grodal, et al 2015; Navis & Glynn, 2010; Ruef &

--- PAGE 14 ---
13

Patterson, 2009) highlight the increasing institutionalization and hardening of categories as they mature,
as the outcome of social processes involving interactions and negotiation among market participants.
Institutionalization in analysts’ frames similarly proceeds from both directions, i.e. as interpretive frames
in an industry are increasingly shared across analysts making similar classifications of firms in their
coverage decisions, and as firms, seeking to gain coverage by analysts, increasingly conform to the
expectations for membership in an increasingly legitimated category (Zuckerman, 1999).
Institutionalization unfolds further when analysts drop coverage of firms engaging in category-deviant
innovation, moving the remaining firms in the category toward even greater coherence. In turn, analysts’
understanding of the remaining category-conforming firms is also likely to improve, further supporting
the institutionalization of a dominant interpretive frame.
An additional mechanism driving institutionalization unfolds as the metrics and models to evaluate
category members are codified into spreadsheets and handed from the senior or lead analysts who initially
developed the frames, to the lower level research associates on the analyst team to perform routinized
analyses (Groysberg & Healy, 2013). While more senior, experienced analysts may have engaged in the
initial search and activities to understand the industry and create a new interpretive frame, once these
codified models are handed off to more junior assistants in the form of spreadsheets, such models arrive
as part of the junior analysts’ jobs – as established, taken for granted “facts” and ways to do their job
evaluating firm performance (cf. Scott, 2001). The continued routinized application of interpretive frames
gives rise to further institutionalization and hardening of the frames.
Analysts’ Influences on Innovation in Convergent Phases
Once interpretive frames are established, and subsequently converge and become institutionalized, the
analysts’ search and sensemaking activities that characterized the nascent period are reduced. As analysts’
interpretive frames cohere, their boundaries likely become increasingly rigid in evaluations of category
members, categorical expectations become clearer, and boundary violations become more salient (e.g.
Ruef & Patterson, 2009).

--- PAGE 15 ---
14

As analysts now apply the increasingly shared and institutionalized interpretive frames to evaluate the
activities and performance of individual firms within an established category, the alignment of individual
firms’ strategies, activities, and financial performance against the category expectations becomes
increasingly salient. Firms that are coherent with the category or best represent the category “prototype”
receive positive evaluations, whereas firms whose activities, strategies, or financial performance depart
from the expectations of the category receive more negative evaluations or less coverage (Ruef &
Patterson, 2009; Zuckerman, 1999; 2004). Notably, the activities that are most consistent with the
institutionalized frame are the incremental product and process innovations that elaborate the current
technological design, while the activities that depart most from categorical expectations are likely to be
the most novel or innovative with respect to the increasingly rigid category.
Thus, as analysts view firms’ activities through institutionalized interpretive frames, they are likely to
issue more positive recommendations on the firms that are undertaking incremental innovations that “fit”
with the period of convergence, and issue more negative recommendations or abandon coverage as firms
undertake the more radical innovation that departs from expectations (e.g. Benner & Zenger, 2016; Litov
et al, 2012; Theeke et al, 2017).
For example, Benner (2010) found that analysts were positive toward Kodak’s and Polaroid’s
incremental efforts to extend film technology, but ignored or were negative toward these firms’
investments in the radically new digital technology. Litov et al (2012) found that analysts tended to drop
coverage of firms pursuing novel corporate strategies that were unique compared to industry peers (but
that were on average more valuable), triggering a lower stock price. Similarly, Theeke et al (2017) found
that medical device firms pursuing novelty were less likely to obtain analyst coverage. Thus, as
interpretive frames converge and become institutionalized, analysts become gatekeepers, rewarding
incremental innovation and highlighting deviations; generally influencing the availability and cost of
capital through their coverage decisions and the content of their recommendations.
Proposition 2: In phases of technological convergence, the greater the convergence and
institutionalization of analysts’ interpretive frames (i.e. the more that similar categories, schema, and
narratives are shared across analysts covering the same industry), the more that analysts will be

--- PAGE 16 ---
15

positive toward incumbents’ incremental innovations that extend the current technology and negative
toward radical innovations that depart from the current technology.

In turn, firms face pressures for conformity; both those already covered in an analyst category or
those seeking coverage by analysts. Firms that are pursuing incremental innovations will be rewarded by
analysts, whereas firms that attempt more radical innovations in these periods of convergence will elicit
negative evaluations or dropped coverage. Firms are likely to seek to alleviate the penalties that arise
from category deviance and change strategies, retreating from radical innovation and novelty and
engaging in incremental innovation that improves their coherence with the category (e.g. Benner &
Ranganathan, 2012; Benner & Zenger, 2017). Analysts’ enforcement of category boundaries in this
convergent phase is therefore likely to spur an increase in incremental innovation in incumbent firms and
a decrease in radical innovation or novelty that is difficult to evaluate within an institutionalized
interpretive frame.
Proposition 3: The more that analysts’ evaluations toward firms engaging in incremental innovations
become negative or result in dropped coverage, the more firms will respond to pressures for
conformity. This will spur incremental innovations that extend the current technology, and dampen
the more radical innovation that departs from existing categories.

Our arguments here further illustrate co-evolution in technology and analysts’ frames. While
convergence in the technology spurs convergence in analysts’ frames, as we discuss above, as analysts’
frames converge, they also reward incremental innovation by incumbents, supporting the corresponding
convergence phase in technological evolution. That is, as frames converge and analysts encourage
incremental innovation, incumbent firms are rewarded for focusing on elaborating a dominant design
through the incremental product innovation and process innovation characteristic of this phase (Anderson
& Tushman, 1990; Abernathy & Utterback, 1980).

REVISITING TECHNOLOGICAL DISCONTINUITIES: ANALYSTS INFLUENCES ON
INNOVATION IN INCUMBENT FIRMS DURING ERAS OF FERMENT

Next, we revisit technological discontinuities, but now consider incumbent firms that already are
classified in the industry categories covered by analysts. We explore forces that underpin persistence in

--- PAGE 17 ---
16

analysts’ interpretive frames and the resulting influences of analysts on innovation undertaken by
incumbent firms faced with technological discontinuities.
Even as technological discontinuities spark nascent industries, they also have important implications
for the incumbent firms in existing industries affected by the change. For example, the radical
technological change to digital photography spurred many new entrants into the new digital camera
product class, but also fundamentally challenged Kodak and Polaroid, incumbent firms in the existing
“photography” industry (Benner, 2010; Tripsas & Gavetti, 2000). Similarly, the potential for a radical
shift to electric vehicle technology that is currently underway clearly has important implications for firms
currently in the auto industry that are producing autos based on the traditional internal combustion
technology.
Heterogeneous incumbent responses to technological discontinuities
Recent work highlights ways that incumbent firms respond to technological discontinuities. An
important approach for responding to a radically new technology is to directly engage in radical
innovation that allows a firm to adopt - or even initiate - the technological change. Indeed, evidence from
research on incumbent adaptation suggests that incumbent firms often do respond directly to
technological discontinuities, both initiating and adopting radical technological changes (Benner, 2010;
Benner & Ranganathan, 2017; Eggers & Kaul, 2018; Eggers & Park, 2018). For example, Kodak created
the first camera incorporating digital technology, initiating a technological discontinuity (Benner, 2010).
Verizon responded to the discontinuous technological change in telecommunications (from copper
wireline technology to voice over Internet protocol (VoIP)) by undertaking investments in radical
innovation in fiber to the home (Benner & Ranganathan, 2017).
Alternatively, incumbent firms can retain their focus on an existing technology rather than attempt the
transition to a radically new technology (Adner & Snow, 2010). For example, rather than engaging in
investments in radical innovation as Verizon did in response to the technological discontinuity, Qwest
curtailed its investments and focused on more incremental changes (Benner & Ranganathan, 2017).

--- PAGE 18 ---
17

Incumbents’ efforts focused on incremental improvements can improve the performance of an old
technology sufficiently to prevent or slow substitution by the new technology for a time. This
corresponds with the observation that the price and performance of old technologies can improve
dramatically as the technology faces a threat of substitution. For example, Furr and Snow (2014) identify
a “last gasp” of carburetor technology when faced with substitution by fuel injection systems, Utterback
(1994) describes the efficiency improvements in the ice harvesting industry as mechanical refrigeration
technology emerged, and Kodak’s efforts to lower the price and improve the resolution in “reusable” film
cameras lengthened the time for digital cameras to achieve the superior price and performance required
for substitution. Firms can deliberately engage in a technology “racing” strategy as they face the threat of
new technologies, i.e. attempts to radically improve an old technology to allow it to compete for a time
with the potential substitute technology (Adner & Snow, 2010).
Persistence in analysts’ interpretive frames
Evidence from prior research suggests that analysts tend to persist in applying existing interpretive
frames to evaluate the activities and performance of established firms, even in industries facing
technological discontinuities, and even in the cases where incumbents do adopt the radically new
technologies and business models. For example, as analysts continued to apply a persistent frame to
evaluating Kodak and Polaroid, they issued positive evaluations of Kodak’s and Polaroid’s film-related
products that did not address the unfolding challenge of digital technology, while ignoring or issuing
negative views of these firms’ digital camera efforts (Benner, 2010). Similarly, analysts persisted in
analyzing Verizon using evaluative schema and metrics that were increasingly obsolete given the major
technological change and the accompanying radical changes in Verizon’s strategy (Benner &
Ranganathan, 2017). Scholars have found further evidence of analysts’ persistence in other settings of
underlying change, for example, when firms undertake fundamental changes in their corporate strategies
(Feldman, 2016) or identities (Tripsas, 2009), that would make new interpretive frames appropriate,
analysts tended to continue to evaluate firms within pre-change industry categories and schema.

--- PAGE 19 ---
18

We first describe drivers of persistence in analysts’ interpretive frames, followed by the effects of
persistent frames on innovation by incumbents. Persistence in analysts’ frames arises, in part, from their
continued usefulness in providing accurate forecasts and explanations of firms’ financial performance and
stock price. Accuracy in assessments using existing frames, in turn, can arise from several factors. First, if
incumbent firms engage in incremental innovation in the old technology rather than undertaking
investments to respond directly to a new technology, existing frames are more likely to continue to
provide an accurate view of firm performance. Moreover, even if one or a small number of the incumbent
firms covered by an analyst undertakes radical innovation to respond to a new technology, analysts are
likely to drop coverage of those firms rather than revisit and revise their interpretive frames.
Characteristics of the new technology, and in particular, the pace of technology diffusion among
producers and customers is also a factor influencing the continued usefulness of existing interpretive
frames. Although a technological discontinuity may be underway, additional technological improvements
or innovations to overcome ecosystem bottlenecks are often required for new technologies to be adopted
and diffuse widely. For example, Adner and Kapoor (2016b) discuss the relatively slow diffusion of high
definition television (HDTV) over 30 years. Although pioneering producers initially created HDTV
products in the 1980s, additional innovation in other parts of the ecosystem were necessary before HDTV
diffused. As a new technology diffuses relatively slowly, the implications of the change may not be
revealed in the financial performance of an individual firm for a time. In turn, this might allow the
existing interpretive frames to continue to provide accurate forecasts and explanations of stock valuation
based on the old technology.
Second, retention of existing interpretive frames is reinforced further by the extent to which the
frames have become institutionalized, widely shared among the analysts covering firms in the same
industry category, as well as important buy-side investors who have adopted the same frames in their
investment behaviors. Sell-side analysts are evaluated for their usefulness by these buy side customers,
and are rewarded through broker votes and recommendations for Institutional Investor rankings
(Groysberg & Healy, 2013). To the extent existing interpretive frames have provided accurate forecasts

--- PAGE 20 ---
19

and compelling explanations for stock valuations, analysts may be more reluctant to abandon these
models and metrics. In part, this is because the relationships with buy side investors arise from shared,
negotiated understandings about particular stocks that are built from – and reflected in – existing
interpretive frames. Marked changes in an analysts’ interpretive frame for evaluating incumbent firms
might negatively affect stock prices and harm the investors currently holding the stock.
Analysts’ Influence on Incumbents’ Innovations during Eras of Ferment
In turn, the extent to which analysts continue to apply persistent interpretive frames in their
assessments of firms further shapes their views of – and influences on – innovation. Incumbents’
investments and innovations in radically new technologies to address a technological discontinuity are
likely to depart from the expectations of persistent interpretive frames. These innovations are likely to
receive negative reactions from analysts, constraining innovation, even during the eras of ferment
triggered by discontinuous technological change. For example, as Benner & Ranganathan (2012)
highlight, analysts covering Kodak were negative toward its investments in digital technology:
Shareholders will revolt once the meager (and distant) potential returns from electronic imaging become clear. .
. . We are eager to see shareholders’ reactions when they realize how much of their money is squandered on
“digital nonsense.” (Prudential Securities, 1994)

Analysts covering Verizon were similarly critical of its investments in radical innovation in fiber-to-the
home technology to respond to the technological discontinuity in telecommunications (Benner &
Ranganathan, 2012):
We are concerned about the economics of the FiOS initiative [Verizon’s investment to respond to VoIP], but a pull-
back on this could make us more constructive on the stock (Morgan Stanley, 2005–06).

Thus, we propose:

Proposition 4: In an era of ferment following a technological discontinuity, to the extent that
interpretive frames persist, incumbent firms that undertake radical innovation will be penalized by
analysts with negative evaluations or downgrades in recommendations.

In contrast, when an incumbent firm continues to engage incrementally in an existing technology
rather than undertaking radical innovation to respond directly to the new technology, reactions from
analysts are likely to be positive, further enabling incremental innovation. Incremental innovation in an

--- PAGE 21 ---
20

old technology is likely to be more consistent than radical innovation with the expectations arising from
the persistent analyst frames. For example, even as Polaroid faced the threat of digital technology and
invested in digital camera products, it also continued to introduce instant film cameras that extended both
the old technology and the existing razor/blade business model (Tripsas & Gavetti, 2000). As Benner
(2010) highlights, analysts were particularly positive about the instant film cameras, as they viewed these
innovations through existing interpretive frames as an important driver of performance and stock price.
New products and new market segments should drive near-term growth in the core instant consumer
photography business. The products that we saw give us confidence (Credit Suisse First Boston 1998).

A key driver of Polaroid’s stock price will be the success of the new products, particularly the Pop-Shot
Instant single-use camera (Credit Suisse First Boston 1998).

Similarly, analysts were positive toward the more incremental approach that Qwest took in response
to technological change in telecommunications (Benner & Ranganathan, 2017). Therefore, we propose:
Proposition 5: In an era of ferment following a technological discontinuity, to the extent that existing
interpretive frames persist, incumbent firms undertaking incremental innovations that extend an old
technology will be rewarded by analysts with positive evaluations and upgrades in recommendations.

Change in Analysts’ Interpretive Frames

Our arguments above suggest that new firms in nascent industries elicit positive reactions from
analysts and support for radical innovation, while incumbent firms in convergent phases elicit positive
reactions from analysts and support for incremental innovation. In both cases, analysts’ influences are
generally in alignment or “fit” with the type of innovation that generally characterizes these periods of
technology evolution. However, as incumbent firms are faced with technological discontinuities, analysts’
persistent frames are no longer aligned with innovation firms seek to undertake, creating a constraint on
innovation. While incumbents’ incremental innovation will continue to be rewarded when viewed through
persistent interpretive frames, these frames prevent the radical innovation that would allow an incumbent
to respond directly to the technology change. In these cases, positive reactions and support for radical
innovation from analysts is possible only if firms can, at the same time, also spur increased analyst search
and attention to the technological change, and drive change in interpretive frames.

--- PAGE 22 ---
21

Past research suggests that analysts covering established industry incumbents can eventually change
their interpretive frames as changes unfold. For example, the schema analysts used for evaluating firms
in the wireline telecommunications industry changed, as VoIP technology increasingly substituted for
copper wire, and Verizon (and AT&T) changed their strategies and increased investments in “fiber to the
home” products (Benner & Ranganathan, 2017). Notably however, these changes in analysts’ interpretive
frames did not occur for several years.5 Tripsas (2009) that new analysts covering Linco changed their
categorization of the firm as it changed its identity. In turn, to the extent analysts’ interpretive frames do
change, existing firms may be re-categorized or the schema employed to evaluate them may be updated,
such that the more radical innovations that previously departed from categorical expectations are more
likely to be understood and enabled.
As we note above, if incumbents conform to pressures from analysts and continue to engage in
incremental innovation, frames are likely to persist. However, if incumbents undertake radical innovation
to respond directly to technological change despite the pressures, analysts are more likely to engage in the
search that leads to changes in their frames. Thus, despite the pressures for conformity we note above,
incumbents’ persistence in radical innovation and investments in new technologies is one factor that
makes analysts more likely to engage in sensemaking activities to understand the new technology and
create new frames.
As incumbents undertake radical innovation to respond to a new technology, the prevailing
interpretive frame becomes less useful for accurate forecasts and explanations of firms’ financial
performance and stock valuations. The inaccuracies or difficulties that spur change in analysts’ frames
could arise from behaviors of firms or investors. For example, if firms’ investments or financial
performance changes unexpectedly with a technological discontinuity, analysts may be spurred to search
for new schema to guide their assessments and forecasts of earnings and stock price. Inaccuracy in
analysts’ recommendations and stock price forecasts can also arise from investor behaviors, as investors

5 That frames eventually change, but with a long delay, suggests inertia in interpretive frames, as opposed to the persistence of a
“correct” frame.

--- PAGE 23 ---
22

become particularly positive or negative toward an industry undergoing technological change, and these
beliefs are reflected in unanticipated changes in stock prices. While the difficulty of assessing radical
innovation undertaken by a single incumbent may spur analysts to simply drop coverage, as more firms
that an analyst covers change their strategies or experience unexpected changes in performance, analysts
may incur the information costs to re-engage in search and initiate changes in their interpretive frames.
Lounsbury and Rao (2004) similarly highlight increased ambiguity and performance variation as drivers
of change in categories.
Second, prior research also suggests that to the extent an incumbent firm focuses on activities
corresponding with a new technology and abandons participation in other technologies or product classes,
analysts are more likely to engage in revising interpretive frames. Feldman (2016) showed that analysts
were more likely to update their schema and subsequently provide more accurate evaluations of firms
after firms spun off their legacy businesses. As the firms entering the new product class created by the
technological change abandon old technologies and have identities and activities focused largely in a new
industry, analysts face pressure to re-categorize firms that no longer fit in an existing industry category.
This is likely to trigger the search and sensemaking interactions with managers and investors to create
new frames to understand the new technology and business models.
Third, as managers undertaking radical innovation emphasize growth in their interactions with
investors and analysts, and as their performance and stock price become more difficult to forecast using
conventional discounted dividend or cash flow calculations, analysts are more likely to engage in search
to revise interpretive frames or develop new ones. Benner & Ranganathan (2017) showed that as
Verizon’s CEO provided analysts with new metrics focused on growth (rather than profit) to evaluate
Verizon’s performance, analysts became more positive.

As analysts increase interactions with investors and managers, seeking ways to revise or
reconstruct interpretive frames, they are increasingly likely to facilitate understanding of firms’
innovations and enable radical innovation (e.g. Benner & Ranganathan, 2017).

--- PAGE 24 ---
23

Proposition 6: In an era of ferment following a technological discontinuity, the more that incumbent
firms persist in radical innovation, abandon participation in other industry domains, and emphasize
growth, the more that analysts will re-engage in search to understand a technological discontinuity
and change interpretive frames.

DISCUSSION

Prior research on sell-side securities analysts is marked by contrasting views of analysts’ influences
on firm innovation. While some research depicts analysts as supportive enablers of innovation, others
emphasize the constraints they impose on firms. We offer a way to reconcile these competing views, by
developing theory that explains how analysts’ influences on innovation shift through evolutionary stages
in an industry technology (Anderson & Tushman, 1990), differentially affecting innovation in new firms
and incumbents. Our core theoretical mechanism is the evolution in analysts’ interpretive frames, i.e. the
categories, schema, and narratives that analysts develop (through their interactions with managers and
investors) for classifying and evaluating firms and explaining the links between firm behavior, financial
performance, and stock prices. By adopting an evolutionary view, we are able to understand how
changing contexts shape these different influences of analysts on innovation, allowing us to explain why
analysts can both enable and constrain innovation. Figure 1 depicts these relationships in our theory.
We present our theory about analyst influences on firms’ innovation in three parts, including their
influences on incremental and radical innovation in both new and incumbent firms. First, we consider
new firms in nascent industries sparked by technological discontinuities. In these settings, analysts engage
in heightened interactions with managers and investors to understand new phenomena. They build and
disseminate the interpretive frames that shape new industry categories and category membership, and
provide the schema and narratives for assessing performance and explaining the drivers of investors’
behaviors and firms’ stock prices. These activities, and the developing frames, help capital market
participants make sense of novelty during eras of ferment, spurring recognition of new firms in new
industries, lowering their costs of capital for innovative activities, and spurring radical innovation.
In subsequent phases of technological convergence that follow the emergence of dominant designs,
analysts’ interpretive frames also converge and become increasingly institutionalized. During these

--- PAGE 25 ---
24

phases, analysts’ activities shift to applying a shared interpretive frame to evaluating now-incumbent
firms. As interpretive frames become institutionalized, misalignments between firms’ strategies and the
interpretive frames, i.e. “boundary violations” (Ruef & Patterson, 2009) become increasingly salient.
Firms that fit clearly with the category by undertaking incremental innovations receive positive
evaluations, while firms that deviate by undertaking more radical innovation receive negative evaluations
or spur analysts to drop coverage (Zuckerman, 1999; Benner & Zenger, 2016). Firms are rewarded in
these periods for the incremental innovation that elaborates an existing technological design.
Third, we consider the already-categorized incumbents facing technological discontinuities in existing
industries. We describe analysts’ reactions to the heterogeneous ways incumbents respond to
technological change, and how persistence in interpretive frames in these periods shapes analysts’
influences on different types of incumbent innovation. Viewing innovation through persistent frames and
strict categories, analysts are likely to continue to support incremental innovation, even in eras of ferment,
but penalize incumbents for radical innovation.
Conversely, incumbents pursuing radical innovation might elicit positive evaluations from analysts if
they undertake efforts to change interpretive frames at the same time. We describe how managers can
influence change in the frames; spurring analysts to undertake search and heightened interactions with
managers and investors to develop new interpretive frames.
Our work further suggests coevolution in industry technology and analysts’ frames (e.g. Grodal, et al,
2015). Variation in the interpretive frames held by different analysts during an era of ferment provides
the requisite variety for understanding innovation and novelty, and supports the variation in technological
designs that characterize this period. Moreover, as analysts develop interpretive frames that both
influence and explain investors’ behaviors (and stock prices), they make sense of nascent industries and
facilitate the availability of capital that allows firms to advance beyond the nascent phase. Subsequently,
convergence in analysts’ frames is driven in part by convergence in technological designs. As frames are
shared and become institutionalized, they also reward incumbent firms for the incremental innovation that

--- PAGE 26 ---
25

elaborates a specific dominant design, reinforcing the incremental product and process innovation that is
characteristic of these periods of convergence following a dominant design.
We make important contributions to research, and suggest opportunities for future work. First, our
theory helps resolve the puzzle that initially motivated this paper, that is, the divergent findings from past
work on analysts’ influence on innovation. By taking an evolutionary approach and theorizing how
analysts’ evolving interpretive frames shape innovation across different phases of technology evolution,
we are able to reconcile the contrasting findings in prior work, and provide a more complete picture of
analysts’ influence. Future work in this area can extend these ideas with more development and empirical
tests of the mechanisms we propose.
Second, our theory contributes to research and theory in technological evolution and innovation. We
explain the role that analysts, as important capital market participants, play in the emergence of new
industries sparked by technological discontinuities, as well as in shaping firms’ responses to technological
change. A frequent claim in research on technological change, beginning with Schumpeter (1934), is that
new firms are nimble and innovative, providing sources of creative destruction in industries, whereas
incumbent firms are sluggish and inertial, and struggle to respond to changes in their environments.
Research has supported these stories by highlighting internal sources of inertia in established firms (e.g.
Henderson & Clark, 1990). Our work highlights the potential for securities analysts, as important
intermediaries in capital markets, to reinforce this mechanism of creative destruction by new firms, as
they facilitate innovation for new entrants engaged in novel activities while constraining already
established firms into conformity with rigid expectations of existing categories. We are able to describe
how these dynamics unfold by separately considering how analysts’ frames are shaped by changing
technologies and context, and how these changes in frames, in turn, shape analysts’ influences on
innovation and the types of firms that are rewarded for innovation. Our theory also may help explain the
apparent paradox observed in practice: while capital for innovation is readily available for new public
firms that have low or no profits, like Uber or Tesla, many existing firms face pressure from shareholders
to curtail innovation. For example, Dell struggled with investors seeking to prevent its investments in

--- PAGE 27 ---
26

innovation, and Michael Dell ultimately believed changing course was possible only by becoming a
private firm (De La Merced & Hardy, 2013).
Third, our work also contributes to research on socio-cognitive drivers of industry emergence and
evolution. Past work on category emergence and evolution has mainly considered the interactions of
producers, customers, and the media in the development and legitimation of industry categories (e.g.
Navis & Glynn, 2010; Lounsbury & Rao, 2004; Ruef & Patterson, 2009). We provide a deeper
understanding of securities analysts as a key audience in industry and category emergence. Analysts play
a major part in the social construction of new industries as they specifically create the new industry
categories and labels, and determine which firms will be classified in the industry and gain analyst
coverage. Analysts’ category structure of coverage organizes and legitimates the activities of publicly
traded firms; thus, they play an important role in socio-cognitive understandings of firms during both
industry emergence and subsequent evolution. Our theory sheds light on an important aspect of analysts’
influences by considering how they shape innovation outcomes in firms and industries.
Our work also highlights important managerial implications. As firms seek to engage in innovation or
responses to technological discontinuities, there are possible opportunities to influence analysts’
evaluations through both the type of innovation firms engage in, and through managers’ interactions with
analysts and investors.
In nascent industries, managers or founders of new firms have opportunities to shape analysts’
reactions both by undertaking the radical innovation that is expected in during eras of ferment, as well as
through engagement with investors and analysts to influence understanding the new technology and the
corresponding development of interpretive frames. As analysts undertake search and interactions with
managers and investors to develop frames to understand and evaluate new firms in nascent industries, the
frames are fluid and malleable, offering opportunities for managers to influence sensemaking, shaping
analysts’ and investors’ views of their firms. An example is Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos’s early involvement
with analysts that helped shape the framing of Amazon as a high tech firm rather than a bookstore.

--- PAGE 28 ---
27

In phases of technological convergence, incumbent firms elicit positive analyst reactions first by
engaging in incremental innovation that conforms to the expectations associated with the analyst frame.,
and by highlighting category coherence in interactions with investors and analysts, for example by
communicating compliance in meeting expectations measured institutionalized performance metrics, such
as earnings forecasts.
Finally, as incumbent firms are faced with technological discontinuities, they have opportunities to
influence analysts’ evaluations both by the nature of the innovation they undertake in these periods, as
well as through efforts to change interpretive frames. Undertaking incremental innovation will continue
to be rewarded when viewed through persistent interpretive frames, and may even slow or prevent change
in interpretive frames, particularly if incumbents engage in “racing” strategies to improve the
performance of an old technology (Adner & Snow, 2010). However, if incumbents undertake radical
innovation to respond to a new technology, they are likely to be penalized by analysts unless interpretive
frames also change. We suggest new firms are important for the creation of new analyst industry
categories; this suggests further that analysts might enable radical innovation to the extent that they
perceive industries and the firms in them as new, with products and business models that depart from
existing categories. New firms in nascent industries spur sensemaking and new interpretive frames that
can facilitate understanding of innovation and novelty. If managers’ communication with analysts
emphasizes newness and growth, the new activities in incumbent firms may be increasingly evaluated
outside the constraining boundaries of current categorizations, enabling firms to engage in radical
innovation to respond to technological discontinuities.

--- PAGE 29 ---
28

FIGURE 1

--- PAGE 30 ---
29

REFERENCES
Abernathy, W.J. & Utterback, J.M. 1978. Patterns of industrial innovation. Technology Review, 80: 40-
47.
Adner R. & Kapoor, R. 2016a. Innovation ecosystems and the pace of substitution: Re-examining
technology s-curves. Strategic Management Journal, 37: 625-648.
Adner R. & Kapoor, R. 2016b. Right tech, wrong time. How to make sure your ecosystem is ready for the
newest technologies. Harvard Business Review, November 2016.
Adner, R. & Snow, D. 2010. Old technology responses to new technology threats: demand heterogeneity
and technology retreats. Industrial and Corporate Change, 19(5): 1655–1675.
Aldrich, H. & Ruef, M. 2006. Organizations evolving, Second edition. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Anderson, P. & Tushman, M.L. 1990. Technological discontinuities and dominant designs: A cyclical
model of technological change. Administrative Science Quarterly, 35: 604-633.
Argyres, N, Bigelow, L. & Nickerson, J. Dominant designs, innovation shocks, and the follower’s
dilemma. Strategic Management Journal, 36: 216-234.
Benner, M. J. 2010. Securities analysts and incumbent response to radical technological change: Evidence
from digital photography and internet telephony. Organization Science, 21 (1): 42-62.
Benner, M. J. & Ranganathan, R. 2012. Offsetting illegitimacy? How pressures from securities analysts
influence incumbents in the face of new technologies. Academy of Management Journal, 55: 213-
233.
Benner, Mary J. and Ram Ranganathan, 2013. Divergent reactions to convergent strategies: Investor
beliefs and analyst reactions during technological change. Organization Science, 24(2): 378-394.
Benner, M. J. & Ranganathan, R. 2017. Measuring up? Persistence and change in analysts’ evaluative
schema following technological change. Organization Science, 28:760-780.
Benner, M. J. & Tripsas, M. 2012. The influence of prior industry affiliation on framing in nascent
industries: The evolution of digital cameras. Strategic Management Journal, 33: 277-302.
Beunza, D. & Garud, R. 2007. Calculators, lemmings, or frame-makers? The intermediary role of
securities analysts. Sociological Review, pp 13-39.
Bingham C.B & Kahl, S.J. 2013. The process of schema emergence: Assimilation, deconstruction,
unitization and the plurality of analogies. Academy of Management Journal, 56:14–34.
Bradshaw, M.T. 2011. Analysts’ forecasts: What do we know after decades of work? SSRN working
paper. DOI:10.2139/ssrn.1880339
Brauer, M. & Wiersema, M. 2018. Analyzing analyst research: A review of past coverage and
recommendations for future research. Journal of Management, 44(1):218-248.
Brealey, R. & Myers, S. 1984. Principles of corporate finance. McGraw-Hill, New York.
Brown, L.D., Call, A.C. Clement, M.B. & Sharp, N.Y., 2016. The activities of buy-side analysts and the
determinants of their stock recommendations. Journal of Accounting and Economics, 62: 139-156.
Brown, L.D., Call, A.C. Clement, M.B. & Sharp, N.Y. 2015. Inside the “black box” of sell-side financial
analysts. Journal of Accounting Research, 53(1): 1-47.
Busenbark, J.R., Lange, D. & Certo, S.T. 2017. Foreshadowing as impression management: Illuminating
the path for security analysts. Strategic Management Journal, 38: 2486-2507.
Crawford, S.S., Roulstone, D.T. & So, E.C. 2012. Analyst initiations of coverage and stock return
synchronicity. The Accounting Review, 87(5): 1527-1553.
Damodaran, A. 2017. Narrative and numbers: The value of stories in business. Columbia University
Press: New York.
De La Merced, M.J. & Hardy, Q 2013. Dell in $24 billion deal to go private. New York Times, Feb 5.

--- PAGE 31 ---
30

Derrien, F. & Kecskes, A. 2013. The real effects of financial shocks: Evidence from exogenous changes
in analyst coverage. The Journal of Finance, LXXVII (4): 1407-1440.
Dosi, G. 1982. Technological paradigms and technological trajectories. A suggested interpretation of the
determinants and directions of technical change. Research Policy, 11: 147-162.
Durand, R. & Khaire, M. 2017. Where do market categories come from and how? Distinguishing
category creation from category emergence. Journal of Management, 43(1): 87-110.
Eggers, J.P. & Kaul, A. 2018. Motivation and ability? A behavioral perspective on the pursuit of radical
invention in multi-technology incumbents. Academy of Management Journal, 61(1): 67-93.
Eggers, J.P. & Park, K. F. 2018. Incumbent adaptation to technological change: The past, present, and
future of research on heterogeneous incumbent response. Academy of Management Annals, 12(1):
357-389.
Feldman, E.R. 2016. Corporate spinoffs and analysts’ coverage decisions: The implications for diversified
firms. Strategic Management Journal, 37: 1196-1219.
Francis & Philbrick, 1993. Analysts’ decisions as products of a multi-task environment. Journal of
Accounting Research, 31(2): 216-230.
Furr, N. & Snow, D.C., 2015. Intergenerational hybrids: Spillbacks, spillforwards, and adapting to
technology discontinuities. Organization Science, 26(2): 475-493.
Gentry, R. J. & Shen, W. 2013. The impacts of performance relative to analyst forecasts and analyst
coverage on firm R&D intensity. Strategic Management Journal, 34: 121-130.
Grodal, S., Gotsopoulos, A., & Suarez, F.F. 2015. The coevolution of technologies and categories during
industry emergence. Academy of Management Review, 40(3): 423-445.
Groysberg, B. & Healy, P.M. 2013. Wall Street research: Past, present, and future. Stanford University
Press: Stanford, CA.
Groysberg, B., Healy, P. Serafeim, G. & Shanthikumar, D. 2013. The stock selection and performance of
buy-side analysts. Management Science, 59(5): 1062-1075.
Guo, B., Perez-Castrillo, D. & Toldra-Simats, A. 2019. Firms’ innovation strategy under the shadow of
analyst coverage. Journal of Financial Economics, 131:456-483.
Hayward, M.L.A. & Boeker, W. 1998. Power and conflicts of interest in professional firms: Evidence
from investment banking. Administrative Science Quarterly, 43(1): 1-22.
He, J. & Tian, X. 2013. The dark side of analyst coverage: The case of innovation. Journal of Financial
Economics, 109: 856-878.
Henderson, R.M. & Clark, K. 1990. Architectural innovation: The reconfiguration of existing product
technologies and the failure of established firms. Administrative Science Quarterly, 35: 9-30.
Hong, H., & Kubik, J. 2003. Analyzing the analysts: Career concerns and biased earnings forecasts. The
Journal of Finance, 58(1): 313-351.
Hong, H., Kubik, J. & Solomon, A. 2000. Security analysts’ career concerns and herding of earnings
forecasts. RAND Journal of Economics 31(1): 121-144.
Hsu G., 2006. Evaluative schemas and the attention of critics in the US film industry. Industrial
Corporate Change, 15(3):467–496.
Kaplan, S. & Tripsas, M. 2008. Thinking about technology: Applying a cognitive lens to technical
change. Research Policy, 37: 790-805.
Li, K.K and You, H. 2015. What is the value of sell-side analysts? Evidence from coverage initiations and
terminations. Journal of Accounting and Economics, 60: 141-160.
Litov, L. Moreton, P. & Zenger T.R. 2012. Corporate strategy, analyst coverage, and the uniqueness
paradox. Management Science, 58(10): 1797-1815.

--- PAGE 32 ---
31

Lounsbury, M. & Rao, H. 2004. Sources of durability and change in market classifications: A study of the
reconstitution of product categories in the American mutual fund industry, 1944-1985. Social
Forces, 82(3): 969-999.
McGough, R. & Wingfield, N. 2000. Amazon or Rashomon? Every analyst has different view of e-tailer’s
prospects. Wall Street Journal, September 27, 2000.
McKendrick, D.G, & Carroll, G.R. 2001. On the genesis of organizational forms: Evidence from the
market for disk arrays. Organization Science, 12(6): 661-682.
Mola, S., Rau, P. & Khorana, A. 2013. Is there life after the complete loss of analyst coverage? The
Accounting Review, 88(2): 667-705.
Murmann, P. & Frenken, K. 2006. Toward a systematic framework for research on dominant designs,
technological innovations, and industrial change. Research Policy, 35: 925-952.
Navis, C. & M.A. Glynn, 2010. How new market categories emerge: Temporal dynamics of legitimacy,
identity, and entrepreneurship in satellite radio, 1990-2005. Administrative Science Quarterly, (55):
439-471.
Rao, H., Greve, H.R. & Davis, G.F. 2001. Fool’s gold: social proof in the initiation and abandonment of
coverage by Wall Street analysts. Administrative Science Quarterly, 46(3): 502-526
Reingold, D., & Reingold, J. 2006. Confessions of a Wall Street analyst. New York: Harper Collins.
Rosa, J.A., Porac, J.F., Runser-Spanjol, J. & Saxon, M.S. 1999. Sociocognitive dynamics in a product
market. Journal of Marketing, 63:64-77.
Ruef, M & Patterson, K. 2009. Credit and classification: The impact of industry boundaries in nineteenth-
century America. Administrative Science Quarterly, 54: 486-529
Schipper, K. 1991. Commentary on analysts’ forecasts. Accounting Horizons 5(4): 105-121.
Schumpeter, J.A. 1934. Theory of economic development. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Scott, W.R. 2001. Institutions and organizations. 2nd Ed. Sage Publications: Thousand Oaks, CA.
Solow, R. M. 1957. “Technical Change and the Aggregate Production Function.” The Review of
Economics and Statistics, 39(3): 312– 320
Theeke, M., Polidoro, Jr., F. & Fredrickson, J.W. 2018. Path dependent routines in the evaluation of
novelty: The effects of innovators’ new knowledge use on brokerage firms’ coverage.
Administrative Science Quarterly, 63(4): 910-942.
Tripsas, M. 2009. Technology, identity and inertia through the lens of “The Digital Photography
Company.” Organization Science, 20: 440-461.
Tripsas M, & Gavetti, G. 2000. Capabilities, cognition, and inertia: Evidence from digital imaging.
Strategic Management Journal, 21: 1147–1161.
Tushman, M. L., & Anderson, P. 1986. Technological discontinuities and organizational environments.
Administrative Science Quarterly, 31 439–465.
Tushman, M.L. & Nelson, R.R. 1990. Introduction: technology, organizations, and innovation.
Administrative Science Quarterly, 35:1-8.
Tushman, M.L., Rosenkopf, L. 1992. On the organizational determinants of technological change:
towards a sociology of technological evolution. Research in Organizational Behavior 14: 311-347.
Wansleben, L. 2012. Financial Analysts. In the Oxford Handbook of the Sociology of Finance, ed Knorr
Cetina, K. & Preda, A. Oxford Handbooks Online.
Zhu, D.H. & Westphal, J.D. 2011. Misperceiving the beliefs of others: How pluralistic ignorance
contributes to the persistence of positive security analyst reactions to the adoption of stock
repurchase plans. Organization Science, 22: 869-886.
Zuckerman, E.W. 1999. The categorical imperative: Securities analysts and the illegitimacy discount.
American Journal of Sociology, 104(5): 1398-1438.

--- PAGE 33 ---
32

Zuckerman, E.W. 2000. Focusing the corporate product: Securities analysts and de-diversification.
Administrative Science Quarterly, 45(3): 591-619.
Zuckerman, E.W. 2004. Structural incoherence and stock market activity. American Sociological Review,
(69): 405-432.
Zuckerman, G., & Bandler, J. 2003. Investors seek to rewind Kodak. Wall Street Journal, October 21: C-
1.