--- PAGE 1 ---
Notice of proposed change pursuant to the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Act of 2010
Section 806(e)(1) *
Section 806(e)(2) *
Security-Based Swap Submission pursuant
to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Section 3C(b)(2) *
Exhibit 2 Sent As Paper Document
Exhibit 3 Sent As Paper Document
has duly caused this filing to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
19b-4(f)(6)
19b-4(f)(5)
Provide a brief description of the action (limit 250 characters, required when Initial is checked *).
(Name *)
NOTE: Clicking the button at right will digitally sign and lock
this form. A digital signature is as legally binding as a physical
signature, and once signed, this form cannot be changed.
Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel
(Title *)
11/14/2014
Date
Provide the name, telephone number, and e-mail address of the person on the staff of the self-regulatory organization
prepared to respond to questions and comments on the action.
Vice President and Associate General Counsel
Title *
Contact Information
19b-4(f)(4)
19b-4(f)(2)
19b-4(f)(3)
Extension of Time Period
for Commission Action *
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
Form 19b-4
Withdrawal
Fax
(202) 728-8264
Philip
Last Name *
Filing by
Pilot
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
048
- *
2014
Amendment No. (req. for Amendments *)
File No.* SR -
Shaikun
philip.shaikun@finra.org
(202) 728-8451
Telephone *
E-mail *
First Name *
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Section 19(b)(3)(A) *
Section 19(b)(3)(B) *
Initial *
Amendment *
Pursuant to Rule 19b-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Description
Proposed Rule Change to Adopt FINRA Rule 2242 (Debt Research Analysts and Debt Research Reports)
Patrice Gliniecki,
Patrice Gliniecki
By
Section 19(b)(2) *
19b-4(f)(1)
Required fields are shown with yellow backgrounds and asterisks.
Page 1 of * 468
OMB APPROVAL
OMB Number: 3235-0045
Estimated average burden
hours per response............38
Rule
Date Expires *

--- PAGE 2 ---
If the self-regulatory organization is amending only part of the text of a lengthy
proposed rule change, it may, with the Commission's permission, file only those
portions of the text of the proposed rule change in which changes are being made if
the filing (i.e. partial amendment) is clearly understandable on its face. Such partial
amendment shall be clearly identified and marked to show deletions and additions.
Partial Amendment
Add
Remove
View
The self-regulatory organization may choose to attach as Exhibit 5 proposed changes
to rule text in place of providing it in Item I and which may otherwise be more easily
readable if provided separately from Form 19b-4. Exhibit 5 shall be considered part
of the proposed rule change.
Exhibit 5 - Proposed Rule Text
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
For complete Form 19b-4 instructions please refer to the EFFS website.
Copies of any form, report, or questionnaire that the self-regulatory organization
proposes to use to help implement or operate the proposed rule change, or that is
referred to by the proposed rule change.
Exhibit Sent As Paper Document
Exhibit 4 - Marked Copies
Add
Remove
View
Exhibit 3 - Form, Report, or Questionnaire
Add
Remove
View
Exhibit 2 - Notices, Written Comments,
Transcripts, Other Communications
Add
Remove
View
Exhibit 1 - Notice of Proposed Rule Change *
Add
Form 19b-4 Information *
Exhibit 1A- Notice of Proposed Rule
Change, Security-Based Swap Submission,
or Advance Notice by Clearing Agencies *
Add
Remove
View
Remove
Add
Remove
The full text shall be marked, in any convenient manner, to indicate additions to and
deletions from the immediately preceding filing. The purpose of Exhibit 4 is to permit
the staff to identify immediately the changes made from the text of the rule with which
it has been working.
View
The self-regulatory organization must provide all required information, presented in a
clear and comprehensible manner, to enable the public to provide meaningful
comment on the proposal and for the Commission to determine whether the proposal
is consistent with the Act and applicable rules and regulations under the Act.
View
Exhibit Sent As Paper Document
The Notice section of this Form 19b-4 must comply with the guidelines for publication
in the Federal Register as well as any requirements for electronic filing as published
by the Commission (if applicable). The Office of the Federal Register (OFR) offers
guidance on Federal Register publication requirements in the Federal Register
Document Drafting Handbook, October 1998 Revision. For example, all references to
the federal securities laws must include the corresponding cite to the United States
Code in a footnote. All references to SEC rules must include the corresponding cite
to the Code of Federal Regulations in a footnote. All references to Securities
Exchange Act Releases must include the release number, release date, Federal
Register cite, Federal Register date, and corresponding file number (e.g., SR-[SRO]
-xx-xx). A material failure to comply with these guidelines will result in the proposed
rule change being deemed not properly filed. See also Rule 0-3 under the Act (17
CFR 240.0-3)
The Notice section of this Form 19b-4 must comply with the guidelines for publication
in the Federal Register as well as any requirements for electronic filing as published
by the Commission (if applicable). The Office of the Federal Register (OFR) offers
guidance on Federal Register publication requirements in the Federal Register
Document Drafting Handbook, October 1998 Revision. For example, all references to
the federal securities laws must include the corresponding cite to the United States
Code in a footnote. All references to SEC rules must include the corresponding cite
to the Code of Federal Regulations in a footnote. All references to Securities
Exchange Act Releases must include the release number, release date, Federal
Register cite, Federal Register date, and corresponding file number (e.g., SR-[SRO]
-xx-xx). A material failure to comply with these guidelines will result in the proposed
rule change, security-based swap submission, or advance notice being deemed not
properly filed. See also Rule 0-3 under the Act (17 CFR 240.0-3)
Copies of notices, written comments, transcripts, other communications. If such
documents cannot be filed electronically in accordance with Instruction F, they shall be
filed in accordance with Instruction G.
Add
Remove
View
Required fields are shown with yellow backgrounds and asterisks.

--- PAGE 3 ---

Page 3 of 468
1.
Text of the Proposed Rule Change
(a) Pursuant to the provisions of Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (“Act” or “Exchange Act”),1 Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
(“FINRA”) is filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or
“Commission”) a proposed rule change to adopt new FINRA Rule 2242 (Debt Research
Analysts and Debt Research Reports) to address conflicts of interest relating to the
publication and distribution of debt research reports.
The text of the proposed rule change is attached as Exhibit 5.
(b) Not applicable.
(c) Not applicable.
2.
Procedures of the Self-Regulatory Organization
At its meeting on July 11, 2013, the FINRA Board of Governors authorized the
filing of the proposed rule change with the SEC. No other action by FINRA is necessary
for the filing of the proposed rule change.

FINRA will announce the effective date of the proposed rule change in a
Regulatory Notice to be published no later than 60 days following Commission approval.
The effective date will be no later than 180 days following publication of the Regulatory
Notice announcing Commission approval.
3.
Self-Regulatory Organization’s Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory
Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change

(a)
Purpose

1
15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

--- PAGE 4 ---

Page 4 of 468
Background
The proposed rule change would adopt FINRA Rule 2242 to address conflicts of
interest relating to the publication and distribution of debt research reports. Proposed
FINRA Rule 2242 would adopt a tiered approach that, in general, would provide retail
debt research recipients with extensive protections similar to those provided to recipients
of equity research under current and proposed FINRA rules, with modifications to reflect
differences in the trading of debt securities.2
Currently, FINRA’s research rules, NASD Rule 2711 (Research Analysts and
Research Reports) and Incorporated NYSE Rule 472 (Communications with the Public)
(the “equity research rules”), set forth requirements to foster objectivity and transparency
in equity research and provide investors with more reliable and useful information to
make investment decisions. The equity research rules apply only to research reports that
include analysis of an “equity security,” as that term is defined under the Exchange Act,3
subject to certain exceptions.4 The equity research rules were intended to restore public
confidence in the objectivity of research and the veracity of research analysts, who are
expected to function as unbiased intermediaries between issuers and the investors who

2
The proposed rule change reflects proposed amendments to FINRA’s equity
research rules set forth in a companion filing to the proposed rule change (the
“equity research filing”). See SR-FINRA-2014-047.
3
See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(11).
4
In contrast to FINRA’s current research rules, SEC Regulation Analyst
Certification (“Regulation AC”), the SEC’s primary vehicle to foster objective
and transparent research, applies to both debt and equity research. See 17 CFR
242.500 et seq.

--- PAGE 5 ---

Page 5 of 468
buy and sell those issuers’ securities.5 The integrity of research had eroded due to the
pervasive influences of investment banking and other conflicts during the market boom
of the late 1990s.
In general, the equity research rules require disclosure of conflicts of interest in
research reports and public appearances by research analysts. The equity research rules
further prohibit conflicted conduct – investment banking personnel involvement in the
content of research reports and determination of analyst compensation, for example –
where the conflicts are too pronounced to be cured by disclosure. Several requirements
in the equity research rules implement provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(“Sarbanes-Oxley”), which mandates separation between research and investment
banking, proscribes conduct that could compromise a research analyst’s objectivity and
requires specific disclosures in research reports and public appearances.6 The Sarbanes-
Oxley research provisions do not apply to debt research.
In December 2005, in response to a Commission Order, FINRA and NYSE
Regulation, Inc. (“NYSE”) submitted to the Commission a joint report on the operation
and effectiveness of the research analyst conflict of interest rules (the “Joint Report”).7

5
NASD Rule 1050 (Registration of Research Analysts) and Incorporated NYSE
Rule 344 (Research Analysts and Supervisory Analysts) require any person
associated with a member and who functions as a research analyst to be registered
as such and pass the Series 86 and 87 exams, unless an exemption applies.
FINRA is considering whether debt research analysts also should be subject to the
same or a similar qualification requirement.
6
15 U.S.C. 78o-6.

7
Joint Report by NASD and the NYSE on the Operation and Effectiveness of the
Research Analyst Conflict of Interest Rules (December 2005), available at
http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@issues/@rar/documents/industry
/p015803.pdf.

--- PAGE 6 ---

Page 6 of 468
Among other things, the Joint Report analyzed the impact of the equity research rules
based on academic studies, media reports and commentary. The Joint Report concluded
that the equity research rules have been effective in helping to restore integrity to
research by minimizing the influence of investment banking and promoting transparency
of other potential conflicts of interest. Evidence from academic studies, among other
sources, further suggested that investors are benefiting from more balanced and accurate
research to aid their investment decisions. A January 2012 GAO report on securities
research (“GAO Report”) also concluded that empirical studies suggest the rules have
resulted in increased equity analyst independence and weakened the influence of conflicts
of interest on analyst recommendations.8
The Joint Report also recommended changes to the equity research rules to strike
a better balance between ensuring objective and reliable research on the one hand, and
permitting the flow of information to investors and minimizing costs and burdens to
members on the other.9 The proposed rule change is informed by FINRA’s experience
with and the effectiveness of the equity research rules and incorporates many of the
findings and recommendations from the Joint Report.
A number of events and circumstances contributed to FINRA’s determination that
a dedicated debt research rule is needed to further investor protection. In 2004, the Bond
Market Association (“BMA”) published its Guiding Principles to Promote the Integrity of

8
United States Government Accountability Office, Securities Research, Additional
Actions Could Improve Regulatory Oversight of Analyst Conflicts of Interest,
January 2012.

9
The basis for the recommended changes to the equity research rules is described
in more detail in the equity research filing. See supra note 2.

--- PAGE 7 ---

Page 7 of 468
Fixed Income Research (“Guiding Principles”),10 a set of voluntary guidelines intended to
foster management and transparency of conflicts of interest with respect to debt research.
The Guiding Principles acknowledge that potential conflicts of interest could arise in the
preparation of debt research, and many of the principles to maintain integrity of debt
research hew closely to the equity research rule requirements. The Guiding Principles
also reflect what the BMA asserted are several significant differences in the role and
impact of research on the equity and fixed income markets, as well as differences in
research regarding individual fixed-income asset classes. For example, the BMA
contended that the prices of debt securities were less sensitive to the views of research
analysts and that the major rating agencies provided a reliable source of independent
information for the debt markets. It also asserted that most debt research was provided to
sophisticated market participants for which it serves as one of many sources of
information to consider when making an investment decision.
The Joint Report discussed the need for rules to govern debt research distribution.
NASD and NYSE indicated that they would examine the extent to which firms
voluntarily adopted the Guiding Principles and would consider further rulemaking after
assessing the effectiveness of voluntary compliance. The Joint Report noted that the anti-
fraud statutes and existing NASD and NYSE broad ethical rules could reach instances of
misconduct involving debt research. NASD and NYSE subsequently surveyed a
selection of firms’ debt research supervisory systems and found many instances where
firms failed to adhere to the Guiding Principles. More significantly, NASD and NYSE
found cases where firms lacked any policies and procedures to manage debt research

10
In 2005, the BMA merged with the Securities Industry Association (“SIA”) to
form the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”).

--- PAGE 8 ---

Page 8 of 468
conflicts to ensure compliance with applicable ethical and anti-fraud rules. Those
findings were published in Notice to Members 06-36,11 where FINRA expressly noted
that it would continue to consider more definitive rulemaking that might differ from or
expand on the Guiding Principles.12
Following publication of its findings in 2006, FINRA continued to examine
whether firms had implemented and enforced supervisory policies and procedures to
promote the integrity of debt research and address attendant conflicts of interest. As
noted in the GAO Report, between 2005 and 2010, FINRA conducted 55 such
examinations and found deficiencies involving inadequate supervisory procedures to
manage debt research conflicts or failure to disclose such conflicts in 11 (20%)
examinations. The GAO Report stated that most market participants and observers that
the GAO interviewed “acknowledged that additional rulemaking is needed to protect
investors, particularly retail investors.” The GAO Report concluded that “until FINRA
adopts a fixed-income research rule, investors continue to face a potential risk.”
Following the consolidation of NASD and the member regulatory functions of
NYSE Regulation, Inc. into FINRA, and as part of the process to develop the
consolidated FINRA rulebook,13 FINRA conducted a comprehensive review of all of its

11
Notice to Members 06-36 (July 2006).
12
As noted in the 2005 report, FINRA believes that the anti-fraud statutes, as well
as existing FINRA rules, such as the requirement in FINRA Rule 2010 (Standards
of Commercial Honor and Principles of Trade) that members, in the conduct of
their business, “observe high standards of commercial honor and just and
equitable principles of trade,” can reach any egregious conduct involving fixed-
income research.
13
The current FINRA rulebook includes, in addition to FINRA Rules, (1) NASD
Rules and (2) rules incorporated from NYSE (“Incorporated NYSE Rules”)
(together, the NASD Rules and Incorporated NYSE Rules are referred to as the

--- PAGE 9 ---

Page 9 of 468
research rules and considered the appropriateness of adopting a dedicated rule to address
potential conflicts of interest in the publication and distribution of debt research reports.
In addition to its examination findings, and later, the conclusions of the GAO Report,
several other factors also weighed in FINRA’s decision to propose dedicated debt
research conflict of interest rules. Misconduct in the sale of auction rate securities (i.e.,
debt traders pressured research analysts to help prop up the market with optimistic
research) demonstrates that potential conflicts of interest in the publication and
distribution of debt research can exist just as they do for equity research.14 Also, the
reliability of credit agency ratings was called into question during the financial crisis that
began in 2008. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank legislation in response to that crisis has
resulted in rules by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) to govern
conflicts of interest regarding non-security-based swaps and commodities research, and
the SEC has proposed rules that would require security-based swap dealers and major
security-based swap participants to adopt written policies and procedures to address
conflicts related to security-based swaps and research. Based on the foregoing
considerations, and consistent with the regulatory trend to require mitigation and
transparency of conflicts related to all types of investment research, FINRA believes it

“Transitional Rulebook”). While the NASD Rules generally apply to all FINRA
members, the Incorporated NYSE Rules apply only to those members of FINRA
that are also members of the NYSE (“Dual Members”). For more information
about the rulebook consolidation process, see Information Notice, March 12, 2008
(Rulebook Consolidation Process).
14
See e.g., SEC Finalizes ARS Settlements With Bank of America, RBC and
Deutsch Bank, Litigation Release No. 21066, 2009 SEC LEXIS 1799 (June 3,
2009); SEC Finalizes ARS Settlement With Wachovia, Litigation Release No.
20885, 2009 SEC LEXIS 282 (February 5, 2009); SEC Finalizes Settlements
With Citigroup and UBS, Litigation Release No. 20824, 2008 WL 5189517
(December 11, 2008).

--- PAGE 10 ---

Page 10 of 468
necessary and appropriate to provide better protections to recipients of debt research,
particularly less sophisticated investors. FINRA’s belief is buttressed by observations of
retail investment in debt securities. For example, FINRA TRACE data shows that from
2007 through 2013, retail-sized transactions (defined to mean trades with a face value of
less than $100,000) in corporate bonds increased approximately 97 percent to about
16,000 daily trades.
In developing the proposed rule change, FINRA recognized that the debt markets
operate differently from the equity markets in some respects. Several of the differences
were noted by the BMA in the release accompanying the Guiding Principles. For
example, the debt markets feature a number of different asset classes (e.g., corporate,
high yield, mortgage backed and asset-backed) with unique characteristics. Within each
class, there are typically many issues with similar terms, creating a fungibility of
securities that doesn’t exist to the same extent in the equity markets. As the BMA noted,
these securities are often priced in relation to benchmark securities or interest rate
measures, and their prices tend to depend more on interest rate movements and other
macroeconomic factors than issuer fundamentals, although an issuer’s ability to service
its debt remains an important factor. As a result of these dynamics, it is less likely that a
debt research report will influence the price of a subject company’s debt securities than
an equity report will impact the price of that company’s equity securities. Also, while
retail and institutional market participants invest in both equity and debt securities,
relative to the equity markets, the debt markets are dominated by institutional market
participants.

--- PAGE 11 ---

Page 11 of 468
The nature of the debt markets has resulted in several different types of debt
research. There is debt research that focuses on the creditworthiness of an issuer or its
individual debt securities. Debt research reports on individual debt securities may look at
the relative value of those securities compared to similar securities of other issuers.
Some debt research compares debt asset classes or issues within those asset classes. And
in light of the importance of interest rates on the price of debt securities, much of the
research related to debt analyzes macroeconomic factors, monetary policy and economic
events without reference to particular assets classes or securities. While much of this
research is prepared by a dedicated research department, FINRA also understands that
trading desks generate market color, analysis and trading ideas, sometimes known as
“trader commentary,” geared towards institutional customers. FINRA understands from
those participants that they value timely information from the trading desk and
incorporate that information into their own analysis when making an investment decision
about debt securities. As discussed in more detail below, the tiered structure of the
proposed rule change and the definition of “debt research report” are intended to
recognize these different forms of debt research and to accommodate the needs of the
institutional market participants.
In a concept proposal published in Regulatory Notice 11-1115, FINRA first sought
to gather additional information on differences between debt and equity research and the
most appropriate rules to protect recipients of debt research. FINRA subsequently

15
See Regulatory Notice 11-11 (March 2011), available at
http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@reg/@notice/documents/notices/
p123296.pdf

--- PAGE 12 ---

Page 12 of 468
published two rule proposals in Regulatory Notice 12-09 and Regulatory Notice 12-42,
each refining the previous proposal in response to comments.
The proposed rule change reflects feedback from those proposals and extensive
discussions with industry participants. This proposal is narrowly tailored to achieve the
regulatory objective to foster objectivity and transparency in debt research, particularly
for retail investors, and to provide more reliable and useful information for investors to
make investment decisions.
The proposed rule change adopts a substantial portion of the equity research rules
and their basic framework for debt research distributed to retail investors. The equity
research rules have proven to be effective in mitigating conflicts of interest in the
publication and distribution of equity research.16 Notwithstanding the differences in the
operation of the equity and debt markets noted above, FINRA believes that many of the
conflicts of interest in the publication and distribution of equity research are also present
in debt research. Therefore, FINRA believes it reasonable generally to apply the same
standards to address these conflicts for recipients of debt research reports. Moreover,
FINRA believes that both investors and firms’ compliance systems would benefit from
consistency between those rules.
As noted above, the proposed rule change adopts a tiered approach that, in
general, would provide retail debt research recipients with extensive protections similar
to those provided to recipients of equity research under current and proposed FINRA
rules, with modifications to reflect the different nature and trading of debt securities.
Proposed FINRA Rule 2242 would differ from FINRA’s current equity research rules in

16
See supra notes 7 and 8.

--- PAGE 13 ---

Page 13 of 468
three key respects.17 First, the proposed rule change would delineate the prohibited and
permissible communications between debt research analysts and principal trading and
sales and trading personnel. These restrictions take into account the need to ration a debt
research analyst’s resources among the multitude of debt securities, the limitations on
price discovery in the debt markets, and the need for trading personnel to perform credit
risk analyses with respect to current and prospective inventory. Second, the proposed
rule change would exempt debt research provided solely to institutional investors from
many of the structural protections and prescriptive disclosure requirements that apply to
research reports distributed to retail investors. FINRA believes that this tiered approach
is appropriate as it recognizes the needs of institutional market participants who rely on
timely market color, trading strategies and other communications from the trading desk.
Third, in addition to the exemption for limited investment banking activity found in the
current and proposed equity research rules, the proposed rule change has a similar
additional exemption for limited principal trading activity. The proposed rule change, in
general, would exempt members that engage in limited investment banking activity or
those with limited principal trading activity and revenues generated from debt trading
from the review, supervision, budget, and compensation provisions in the proposed rule
related to investment banking activity or principal trading activity, respectively.

17
FINRA notes that the proposed rule change differs from the current equity rules in
some other respects, including not incorporating the quiet periods and restrictions
on pre-IPO share ownership. FINRA believes that the different nature and trading
of debt securities, as discussed in detail above, does not necessitate the restrictions
in the context of debt research. We further note that the quiet periods in the
equity rules are mandated by Sarbanes-Oxley and that FINRA has proposed to
reduce or eliminate those quiet periods, consistent with Sarbanes-Oxley, in the
proposed equity rules.

--- PAGE 14 ---

Page 14 of 468
Like the equity research rules, the proposed rule change is intended to foster
objectivity and transparency in debt research and to provide investors with more reliable
and useful information to make investment decisions. The proposed rule change is set
forth in detail below.
Proposed FINRA Rule 2242
Definitions
The proposed rule change would adopt defined terms for purposes of proposed
FINRA Rule 2242.18 Most of the defined terms closely follow the defined terms for
equity research in NASD Rule 2711, as amended by the equity research filing, with
minor changes to reflect their application to debt research. The proposed definitions are
set forth below.19
Under the proposed rule change, the term “debt research analyst” would mean an
associated person who is primarily responsible for, and any associated person who
reports directly or indirectly to a debt research analyst in connection with, the preparation
of the substance of a debt research report, whether or not any such person has the job title
of “research analyst.”20 The term “debt research analyst account” would mean any
account in which a debt research analyst or member of the debt research analyst’s
household has a financial interest, or over which such analyst has discretion or control;

18
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a) for all of the proposed defined terms.
19
The proposed rule change also adopts defined terms to implement the tiered
structure of proposed FINRA Rule 2242, including the terms “qualified
institutional buyer” or “QIB,” which is part of the description of an institutional
investor for purposes of the Rule, and “retail investor.” A detailed discussion of
these definitions and the tiered structure of the proposed rule is available at pages
90 through 96.

20
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(1).

--- PAGE 15 ---

Page 15 of 468
provided, however, it would not include an investment company registered under the
Investment Company Act over which the debt research analyst or a member of the debt
research analyst’s household has discretion or control, provided that the debt research
analyst or member of a debt research analyst’s household has no financial interest in such
investment company, other than a performance or management fee. The term also would
not include a “blind trust” account that is controlled by a person other than the debt
research analyst or member of the debt research analyst’s household where neither the
debt research analyst nor a member of the debt research analyst’s household knows of the
account’s investments or investment transactions.21
The proposed rule change would define the term “debt research report” as any
written (including electronic) communication that includes an analysis of a debt security
or an issuer of a debt security and that provides information reasonably sufficient upon
which to base an investment decision, excluding communications that solely constitute
an equity research report as defined in proposed Rule 2241(a)(11).22 The proposed
definition and exceptions noted below would generally align with the definition of

21
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(2). The exclusion for a registered investment
company over which a research analyst has discretion or control in the proposed
definition mirrors proposed changes to the definition of “research analyst
account” in the equity research rules.

22
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(3). The proposed rule change does not
incorporate a proposed exclusion from the equity research rule’s definition of
“research report” of communications concerning open-end registered investment
companies that are not listed or traded on an exchange (“mutual funds”) because
it is not necessary since mutual fund securities are equity securities under Section
3(a)(11) of the Exchange Act and therefore would not be captured by the
proposed definition of “debt research report” in the proposed rule change.

--- PAGE 16 ---

Page 16 of 468
“research report” in NASD Rule 2711, while incorporating aspects of the Regulation
AC definition of “research report”.23
Communications that constitute statutory prospectuses that are filed as part of
the registration statement would not be included in the definition of a debt research
report. In general, the term debt research report also would not include communications
that are limited to the following, if they do not include an analysis of, or recommend or
rate, individual debt securities or issuers:
 discussions of broad-based indices;
 commentaries on economic, political or market conditions;
 commentaries on or analyses of particular types of debt securities or
characteristics of debt securities;
 technical analyses concerning the demand and supply for a sector, index or
industry based on trading volume and price;
 recommendations regarding increasing or decreasing holdings in particular
industries or sectors or types of debt securities; or
 notices of ratings or price target changes, provided that the member
simultaneously directs the readers of the notice to the most recent debt research
report on the subject company that includes all current applicable disclosures
required by the rule and that such debt research report does not contain

23
In aligning the proposed definition with the Regulation AC definition of research
report, the proposed definition differs in minor respects from the definition of
“research report” in NASD Rule 2711. For example, the proposed definition of
“debt research report” would apply to a communication that includes an analysis
of a debt security or an issuer of a debt security, while the definition of “research
report” in NASD Rule 2711 applies to an analysis of equity securities of
individual companies or industries.

--- PAGE 17 ---

Page 17 of 468
materially misleading disclosure, including disclosures that are outdated or no
longer applicable.
The term debt research report also, in general, would not include the following
communications, even if they include an analysis of an individual debt security or issuer
and information reasonably sufficient upon which to base an investment decision:
 statistical summaries of multiple companies’ financial data, including listings of
current ratings that do not include an analysis of individual companies’ data;
 an analysis prepared for a specific person or a limited group of fewer than 15
persons;
 periodic reports or other communications prepared for investment company
shareholders or discretionary investment account clients that discuss individual
debt securities in the context of a fund's or account’s past performance or the
basis for previously made discretionary investment decisions; or
 internal communications that are not given to current or prospective customers.

The proposed rule change would define the term “debt security” as any “security”
as defined in Section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act, except for any “equity security” as
defined in Section 3(a)(11) of the Exchange Act, any “municipal security” as defined in
Section 3(a)(29) of the Exchange Act, any “security-based swap” as defined in Section
3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act, and any “U.S. Treasury Security” as defined in paragraph
(p) of FINRA Rule 6710.24 The proposed definition excludes municipal securities, in
part because of FINRA’s jurisdictional limitations with respect to such securities. The
proposed definition excludes security-based swaps given the nascent and evolving nature

24
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(4).

--- PAGE 18 ---

Page 18 of 468
of security-based swap regulation.25 However, FINRA intends to monitor regulatory
developments with respect to security-based swaps and may determine to later include
such securities in the definition of debt security.
The proposed rule change would define the term “debt trader” as a person,
with respect to transactions in debt securities, who is engaged in proprietary
trading or the execution of transactions on an agency basis.26
The proposed rule change would provide that the term “independent third-
party debt research report” means a third-party debt research report, in respect of
which the person producing the report: (1) has no affiliation or business or
contractual relationship with the distributing member or that member’s affiliates that
is reasonably likely to inform the content of its research reports; and (2) makes

25
The Commission’s rulemaking in the area of security-based swaps, pursuant to
Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
(the “Dodd-Frank Act”), is ongoing. In June 2011, the Commission proposed
rules addressing policies and procedures with respect to research and analysis for
security-based swaps as part of its proposal governing business conduct standards
for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants. See
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 64766 (June 29, 2011), 76 FR 42396 (July
18, 2011) (Business Conduct Standards for Security-Based Swap Dealers and
Major Security-Based Swap Participants). In June 2012, the Commission staff
sought comment on a statement of general policy for the sequencing of
compliance dates for rules applicable to security-based swaps. See Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 67177 (June 11, 2012), 77 FR 35625 (June 14, 2012)
(Statement of General Policy on the Sequencing of the Compliance Dates for
Final Rules Applicable to Security-Based Swaps Adopted Pursuant to the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act). In May 2013, the Commission re-opened comment on
the statement of general policy and on the outstanding rulemaking releases. The
comment period was reopened until July 22, 2013. See Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 69491 (May 1, 2013), 78 FR 30800 (May 23, 2013) (Reopening of
Comment Periods for Certain Proposed Rulemaking Releases and Policy
Statements Applicable to Security-Based Swaps).

26
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(5).

--- PAGE 19 ---

Page 19 of 468
content determinations without any input from the distributing member or that
member’s affiliates.27
The proposed rule change would define the term “investment banking
department” as any department or division, whether or not identified as such, that
performs any investment banking service on behalf of a member.28 The term
“investment banking services” would include, without limitation, acting as an
underwriter, participating in a selling group in an offering for the issuer or otherwise
acting in furtherance of a public offering of the issuer; acting as a financial adviser in a
merger or acquisition; providing venture capital or equity lines of credit or serving as
placement agent for the issuer or otherwise acting in furtherance of a private offering of
the issuer.29
The proposed rule change would define the term “member of a debt research
analyst’s household” as any individual whose principal residence is the same as the debt
research analyst’s principal residence.30 This term would not include an unrelated
person who shares the same residence as a debt research analyst, provided that the debt
research analyst and unrelated person are financially independent of one another.
The proposed rule change would define “public appearance” as any participation

27
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(6).

28
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(8).

29
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(9). The current definition in NASD Rule
2711 includes, without limitation, many common types of investment banking
services. The proposed rule change and the equity research filing propose to add
the language “or otherwise acting in furtherance of” either a public or private
offering to further emphasize that the term “investment banking services” is
meant to be construed broadly.

30
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(10).

--- PAGE 20 ---

Page 20 of 468
in a conference call, seminar, forum (including an interactive electronic forum) or other
public speaking activity before 15 or more persons or before one or more
representatives of the media, a radio, television or print media interview, or the writing
of a print media article, in which a debt research analyst makes a recommendation or
offers an opinion concerning a debt security or an issuer of a debt security.31 This term
shall not include a password protected webcast, conference call or similar event with 15
or more existing customers, provided that all of the event participants previously
received the most current debt research report or other documentation that contains the
required applicable disclosures, and that the debt research analyst appearing at the event
corrects and updates during the event any disclosures in the debt research report that are
inaccurate, misleading or no longer applicable.
Under the proposed rule change the term “qualified institutional buyer” has the
same meaning as under Rule 144A of the Securities Act.32
The proposed rule change would define “research department” as any
department or division, whether or not identified as such, that is principally responsible
for preparing the substance of a debt research report on behalf of a member.33 The
proposed rule change would define the term “subject company” as the company whose
debt securities are the subject of a debt research report or a public appearance.34
Finally, the proposed rule change would define the term “third-party debt research

31
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(11).

32
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(12).

33
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(14).

34
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(15).

--- PAGE 21 ---

Page 21 of 468
report” as a debt research report that is produced by a person or entity other than the
member.35
Identifying and Managing Conflicts of Interest
Similar to the proposed equity research rules, the proposed rule change contains
an overarching provision that would require members to establish, maintain and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and effectively manage
conflicts of interest related to the preparation, content and distribution of debt research
reports, public appearances by debt research analysts, and the interaction between debt
research analysts and persons outside of the research department, including investment
banking, sales and trading and principal trading personnel, subject companies and
customers.36 The proposed rule change then sets forth minimum requirements for those
written policies and procedures. These provisions set out the fundamental obligation for
a member to establish and maintain a system to identify and mitigate conflicts to foster
integrity and fairness in its debt research products and services. The provisions are also
intended to require firms to be more proactive in identifying and managing conflicts as
new research products, affiliations and distribution methods emerge. This approach
allows for some flexibility to manage identified conflicts, with some specified
prohibitions and restrictions where disclosure does not adequately mitigate them. Most
of the minimum requirements have been experience tested and found effective in the
equity research rules.

35
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(16).

36
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(1).

--- PAGE 22 ---

Page 22 of 468
In general, the proposed rule change adopts, with slight modifications, the
structural safeguards that the Joint Report found effective to promote analyst
independence and objective research in the equity research rules, but in the form of
mandated policies and procedures with some baseline proscriptions.37 FINRA believes
this approach will impose less cost than a pure prescriptive approach by requiring
members to adopt a compliance system that aligns with their particular structure, business
model and philosophy. FINRA notes that the approach is consistent with FINRA’s
general supervision rule, which similarly provides firms flexibility to establish and
maintain supervisory programs best suited to their business models, reasonably designed
to achieve compliance with applicable federal securities law and regulations and FINRA
rules.38 The proposed rule change introduces a distinction between sales and trading

37
Among the structural safeguards, FINRA believes separation between investment
banking and debt research, and between sales and trading and principal trading
and debt research, is of particular importance. As such, while the proposed rule
change does not mandate physical separation between the debt research
department and the investment banking, sales and trading and principal trading
departments (or other person who might seek to influence research analysts),
FINRA would expect such physical separation except in extraordinary
circumstances where the costs are unreasonable due to a firm’s size and resource
limitations. In those instances, a firm must implement written policies and
procedures, including information barriers, to effectively achieve and monitor
separation between debt research and investment banking, sales and trading and
principal trading personnel.

38
See NASD Rule 3010, recently adopted with changes as a consolidated FINRA
rule by Securities Exchange Act Release No. 71179 (December 23, 2013), 78 FR
79542 (December 30, 2013) (Order Approving File No. SR-FINRA-2013-025).
The consolidated rule becomes effective December 1, 2014. FINRA notes that the
policies and procedures approach is consistent with the effective practices
highlighted by FINRA in its Report on Conflicts of Interest, among them that
firms should implement a robust conflicts management framework that includes
structures, processes and policies to identify and manage conflicts of interest. See
Report on Conflicts of Interest, FINRA (October 2013) at 5, available at
http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@reg/@guide/documents/industry
/p359971.pdf. The proposed changes also help to harmonize with approaches in

--- PAGE 23 ---

Page 23 of 468
personnel—institutional sales representatives and sales traders—and persons engaged in
principal trading activities, where the conflicts addressed by the proposal are of most
concern.
Specifically, members must implement written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to promote objective and reliable debt research that reflects the truly
held opinions of debt research analysts and to prevent the use of debt research reports or
debt research analysts to manipulate or condition the market or favor the interests of the
firm or current or prospective customers or class of customers.39 Such policies and
procedures must, at a minimum, address the following.
Prepublication Review
The required policies and procedures must, at a minimum, be reasonably designed
to prohibit prepublication review, clearance or approval of debt research by persons
involved in investment banking, sales and trading or principal trading, and either restrict
or prohibit such review, clearance and approval by other non-research personnel other
than legal and compliance.40 The policies and procedures also must prohibit

international jurisdictions, such as the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority in
the United Kingdom. See COBS 12.2.5 R, The Financial Conduct Authority
Handbook, available at http://fshandbook.info/FS/html/handbook/COBS/12/2.

39
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2).
40
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(A) and (B). Thus, a firm must specify in
its policies and procedures the circumstances, if any, where prepublication review
would be permitted as necessary and appropriate pursuant to proposed FINRA
Rule 2242(b)(2)(B); for example, where non-research personnel are best situated
to verify select facts or where administrative personnel review for formatting.
FINRA notes that members still would be subject to the overarching requirement
to have policies and procedures reasonably designed to effectively manage
conflicts of interest between research analysts and those outside of the research
department. See also proposed FINRA Rule 2242.05 (Submission of Sections of
a Draft Research Report for Factual Review).

--- PAGE 24 ---

Page 24 of 468
prepublication review of a debt research report by a subject company, other than for
verification of facts.41 Similar provisions in the equity rules have proven effective to
ensure independence of the research department, and FINRA believes that the objectivity
of debt research could be compromised to the extent conflicted persons, e.g., those
involved in investment banking and trading activities, have an opportunity to review and
comment on the content of a debt research report. The proposed rule change would allow
limited review by the subject company because it is sometimes in a unique position to
verify facts; otherwise, FINRA believes research analysts should confirm that purported
facts are based on other reliable information. The proposed rule change allows sections
of a draft debt research report to be provided to non-investment banking personnel, non-
principal trading personnel, non-sales and trading personnel or to the subject company for
factual review, so long as: (a) the sections of the draft debt research report submitted do
not contain the research summary, recommendation or rating; (b) a complete draft of the
debt research report is provided to legal or compliance personnel before sections of the
report are submitted to non-investment banking personnel, non-principal trading
personnel, non-sales and trading personnel or the subject company; and (c) if, after
submitting sections of the draft debt research report to non-investment banking personnel,
non-principal trading personnel, non-sales and trading personnel or the subject company,
the research department intends to change the proposed rating or recommendation, it
must first provide written justification to, and receive written authorization from, legal or

41
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(N).

--- PAGE 25 ---

Page 25 of 468
compliance personnel for the change. The member must retain copies of any draft and
the final version of such debt research report for three years after publication. 42
Coverage Decisions
With respect to coverage decisions, a member’s written policies and procedures
must restrict or limit input by investment banking, sales and trading and principal trading
personnel to ensure that research management independently makes all final decisions
regarding the research coverage plan.43 However, as discussed below, the provision does
not preclude personnel from these or any other department from conveying customer
interests and coverage needs, so long as final decisions regarding the coverage plan are
made by research management. FINRA believes this provision strikes an appropriate
balance by allowing input of customer interests in determining the allocation of limited
research resources to a wide range of debt securities, while preserving the final decisions
for research management.
Solicitation and Marketing of Investment Banking Transactions
A member’s written policies and procedures also must, at a minimum, restrict or
limit activities by debt research analysts that can reasonably be expected to compromise
their objectivity.44 This includes prohibiting participation in pitches and other
solicitations of investment banking services transactions and road shows and other
marketing on behalf of issuers related to such transactions. The proposed rule change
adopts Supplementary Material that incorporates an existing FINRA interpretation for the

42
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.05 (Submission of Sections of a Draft Research
Report for Factual Review).
43
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(C).

44
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(L).

--- PAGE 26 ---

Page 26 of 468
equity research rules that prohibits in pitch materials any information about a member’s
debt research capacity in a manner that suggests, directly or indirectly, that the member
might provide favorable debt research coverage.45 By way of example, the
Supplementary Material explains that FINRA would consider the publication in a pitch
book or related materials of an analyst’s industry ranking to imply the potential outcome
of future research because of the manner in which such rankings are compiled. The
Supplementary Material further notes that a member would be permitted to include in the
pitch materials the fact of coverage and the name of the debt research analyst, since that
information alone does not imply favorable coverage. FINRA notes that, consistent with
existing guidance on the equity research rules, debt research analysts may listen to or
view a live webcast of a transaction-related road show or other widely attended
presentation by investment banking to investors or the sales force from a remote location,
or another room if they are in the same location.46
The proposed rule change also would prohibit investment banking personnel
from directing debt research analysts to engage in sales or marketing efforts related to
an investment banking services transaction or any communication with a current or
prospective customer about an investment banking services transaction.47 In addition,
the proposed rule change adopts Supplementary Material to provide that, consistent with
this requirement, no debt research analyst may engage in any communication with a

45
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.01 (Efforts to Solicit Investment Banking
Business).
46
See NASD Notice to Members 07-04 (January 2007) and NYSE Information
Memo 07-11 (January 2007).

47
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(M).

--- PAGE 27 ---

Page 27 of 468
current or prospective customer in the presence of investment banking department
personnel or company management about an investment banking services transaction.48
FINRA believes that the presence of investment bankers or issuer management could
compromise a debt research analyst’s candor when talking to a current or prospective
customer about a deal.
FINRA believes that the role of any research analyst, debt or equity, is to provide
unbiased analysis of issuers and their securities for the benefit of investors, not to help
win business for their firms or market transactions on behalf of issuers. FINRA believes
the prohibitions in these provisions, which have been a cornerstone of the equity research
rules, are equally important to mitigate significant conflicts between investment banking
and debt research analysts.
Supervision
A member’s written policies and procedures must limit the supervision of debt
research analysts to persons not engaged in investment banking, sales and trading or
principal trading activities.49 In addition, they further must establish information barriers
or other institutional safeguards to ensure that debt research analysts are insulated from
the review, pressure or oversight by persons engaged in investment banking services,

48
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.02(a) (Restrictions on Communications with
Customers and Internal Personnel).
49
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(D). The provision is substantively the
same as current NASD Rule 2711(b)(1), a core structural separation requirement
in the equity research rules that FINRA believes is essential to safeguarding
analyst objectivity.

--- PAGE 28 ---

Page 28 of 468
principal trading or sales and trading activities or others who might be biased in their
judgment or supervision.50
The requirement for information barriers or other institutional safeguards to
insulate research analysts from pressure is taken from Sarbanes-Oxley, which applies
only to research reports on equity securities. FINRA believes this provision has equal
application to debt research reports and that firms must not allow supervision or
influence by anyone in the firm outside of the research department whose interests
may be at odds with producing objective research. FINRA believes that independence
for debt research analysts requires effective separation from those whose economic
interests may be in conflict with the content of debt research. The proposed rule
change furthers that separation by prohibiting oversight of debt research analysts by
those involved in investment banking or trading activities.
Budget and Compensation
A member’s written policies and procedures also must limit the determination of a
firm’s debt research department budget to senior management, excluding senior
management engaged in investment banking or principal trading activities, and without
regard to specific revenues or results derived from investment banking.51 However, the
proposed rule change would expressly permit all persons to provide input to senior
management regarding the demand for and quality of debt research, including product
trends and customer interests. It further would allow consideration by senior
management of a firm’s overall revenues and results in determining the debt research

50
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(H).

51
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(E).

--- PAGE 29 ---

Page 29 of 468
budget and allocation of expenses. FINRA believes the budget provisions strike a
reasonable balance by prohibiting final budget determinations by those persons most
conflicted, but allowing input from all persons and consideration of revenues other than
investment banking to best allocate scarce budget resources.
With respect to compensation determinations, a member’s written policies and
procedures must prohibit compensation based on specific investment banking services or
trading transactions or contributions to a firm’s investment banking or principal trading
activities and prohibit investment banking and principal trading personnel from input into
the compensation of debt research analysts.52 Further, the firm’s written policies and
procedures must require that the compensation of a debt research analyst who is primarily
responsible for the substance of a research report be reviewed and approved at least
annually by a committee that reports to a member’s board of directors or, if the member
has no board of directors, a senior executive officer of the member.53 This committee
may not have representation from investment banking personnel or persons engaged in
principal trading activities and must consider the following factors when reviewing a debt
research analyst’s compensation, if applicable: the debt research analyst’s individual
performance, including the analyst’s productivity and the quality of the debt research
analyst’s research; and the overall ratings received from customers and peers
(independent of the member’s investment banking department and persons engaged in
principal trading activities) and other independent ratings services.

52
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(D) and (F).

53
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(G).

--- PAGE 30 ---

Page 30 of 468
Neither investment banking personnel nor persons engaged in principal trading
activities may give input with respect to the compensation determination for debt
research analysts. However, sales and trading personnel may give input to debt research
management as part of the evaluation process in order to convey customer feedback,
provided that final compensation determinations are made by research management,
subject to review and approval by the compensation committee.54 The committee, which
may not have representation from investment banking or persons engaged in principal
trading activities, must document the basis for each debt research analyst’s compensation,
including any input from sales and trading personnel.
The compensation provisions are similar to those that have proven effective in the
equity research rules. However, the separation extends to not only investment banking,
but also those engaged in principal trading activities, because such persons have the most
pronounced conflict with respect to debt research. FINRA believes that the
compensation determination is a key source of influence on the content of debt research
reports and therefore it is important to require both separation from those who might
influence research analysts and consideration of the quality of the research produced in
making that determination.
Personal Trading Restrictions
Under the proposed rule change, a member’s written policies and procedures must
restrict or limit trading by a “debt research analyst account” in securities, derivatives and
funds whose performance is materially dependent upon the performance of securities

54
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(D) and (G).

--- PAGE 31 ---

Page 31 of 468
covered by the debt research analyst.55 The procedures must ensure that those accounts,
supervisors of debt research analysts and associated persons with the ability to influence
the content of debt research reports do not benefit in their trading from knowledge of the
content or timing of debt research reports before the intended recipients of such research
have had a reasonable opportunity to act on the information in the report.56 Furthermore,
the procedures must generally prohibit a debt research analyst account from purchasing
or selling any security or any option or derivative of such security in a manner
inconsistent with the debt research analyst’s most recently published recommendation,
except that they may define circumstances of financial hardship (e.g., unanticipated
significant change in the personal financial circumstances of the beneficial owner of the
research analyst account) in which the firm will permit trading contrary to that
recommendation. In determining whether a particular trade is contrary to an existing
recommendation, firms may take into account the context of a given trade, including the
extent of coverage of the subject security. While the proposed rule change does not
include a recordkeeping requirement, FINRA expects members to evidence compliance
with their policies and procedures and retain any related documentation in accordance
with FINRA Rule 4511.
The proposed rule change includes Supplementary Material .10, which provides
that FINRA would not consider a research analyst account to have traded in a manner

55
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(J).

56
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.07 (Ability to Influence the Content of a
Research Report) would provide that for the purposes of the rule, an associated
person with the ability to influence the content of a debt research report is an
associated person who, in the ordinary course of that person’s duties, has the
authority to review the debt research report and change that debt research report
prior to publication or distribution.

--- PAGE 32 ---

Page 32 of 468
inconsistent with a research analyst’s recommendation where a member has instituted a
policy that prohibits any research analyst from holding securities, or options on or
derivatives of such securities, of the companies in the research analyst’s coverage
universe, provided that the member establishes a reasonable plan to liquidate such
holdings consistent with the principles in paragraph (b)(2)(J)(i) and such plan is approved
by the member’s legal or compliance department.57 This provision is intended to provide
a mechanism by which a firm’s analysts can divest their holdings to comply with a more
restrictive personal trading policy without violating the trading against recommendation
provision in circumstances where an analyst has, for example, a “buy” rating on a subject
company or debt security.
FINRA believes these provisions will protect investors by prohibiting research
analysts and those with an ability to influence the content of research reports, such as
supervisors, from trading ahead of their customers based on knowledge that may move
the market once made public. FINRA further believes the provisions, in general, will
promote objective research by requiring consistency between personal trading by
research analysts and recommendations to customers.
Retaliation and Promises of Favorable Research
A member’s written policies and procedures must prohibit direct or indirect
retaliation or threat of retaliation against debt research analysts by any employee of the
firm for publishing research or making a public appearance that may adversely affect the
member’s current or prospective business interests.58 FINRA believes it is essential to a

57
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.10.
58
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(I). This provision is not intended to limit a
member’s authority to discipline or terminate a debt research analyst, in

--- PAGE 33 ---

Page 33 of 468
research analyst’s independence and objectivity that no person employed by the member
that is in a position to retaliate or threaten to retaliate should be permitted to do so based
on the content of a research report or public appearance. The policies and procedures
also must prohibit explicit or implicit promises of favorable debt research, specific
research content or a specific rating or recommendation as inducement for the receipt of
business or compensation.59 This provision is also key to preserving the integrity of debt
research and the independence of debt research analysts, who otherwise may feel
pressure to tailor the content of debt research to the business interests of the firm.
Joint Due Diligence with Investment Banking Personnel
The proposed rule change establishes a proscription with respect to joint due
diligence activities – i.e., due diligence by the debt research analyst in the presence of
investment banking department personnel – during a specified time period. Specifically,
the proposed rule change states that FINRA interprets the overarching principle requiring
members to, among other things, establish, maintain and enforce written policies and
procedures that address the interaction between debt research analysts, banking and
subject companies,60 to prohibit the performance of joint due diligence prior to the
selection of underwriters for the investment banking services transaction.61 FINRA
understands that in some instances, due diligence activities take place even before an

accordance with the member’s written policies and procedures, for any cause
other than writing an adverse, negative, or otherwise unfavorable research report
or for making similar comments during a public appearance.

59
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(K).

60
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(1)(C).

61
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.09 (Joint Due Diligence).

--- PAGE 34 ---

Page 34 of 468
issuer has awarded the mandate to manage or co-manage an offering. There is
heightened risk in those circumstances that investment bankers may pressure analysts to
produce favorable research that may bolster the firm’s bid to become an underwriter for
the offering. Once the mandate has been awarded, FINRA believes joint due diligence
may take place in accordance with appropriate written policies and procedures to guard
against interactions to further the interests of the investment banking department. At that
time, FINRA believes that the efficiencies of joint due diligence outweigh the risk of
pressure on debt research analysts by investment banking.
Communications Between Debt Research Analysts and Trading Personnel
The proposed rule change delineates the prohibited and permissible interactions
between debt research analysts and sales and trading and principal trading personnel.
The proposed rule change would require members to establish, maintain and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prohibit sales and trading and
principal trading personnel from attempting to influence a debt research analyst’s
opinions or views for the purpose of benefiting the trading position of the firm, a
customer or a class of customers.62 It would further prohibit debt research analysts from
identifying or recommending specific potential trading transactions to sales and trading
or principal trading personnel that are inconsistent with such debt research analyst’s
currently published debt research reports or from disclosing the timing of, or material
investment conclusions in, a pending debt research report.63 The communications
prohibited under the proposed rule change are intended to prevent undue influence on

62
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(a)(1) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).
63
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(a)(2) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).

--- PAGE 35 ---

Page 35 of 468
debt research analysts to generate or conform research to a firm’s proprietary trading
interests or those of particular customers. FINRA believes that these prohibitions are
necessary to mitigate a significant conflict between firms and their customers.
However, FINRA understands that certain communications between debt
research analysts and trading desk personnel are essential to the discharge of their
functions, e.g., debt research analysts need to obtain from trading personnel
information relevant to a valuation analysis and trading personnel need to obtain from
debt research analysts information regarding the creditworthiness of an issuer. These
departments also must communicate regarding coverage decisions, given the large
number of debt instruments.
Therefore, the proposed rule change would permit sales and trading and
principal trading personnel to communicate customers’ interests to a debt research
analyst, so long as the debt research analyst does not respond by publishing debt
research for the purpose of benefiting the trading position of the firm, a customer or a
class of customers.64 In addition, debt research analysts may provide customized
analysis, recommendations or trade ideas to sales and trading and principal trading
personnel and customers, provided that any such communications are not inconsistent
with the analyst’s currently published or pending debt research, and that any
subsequently published debt research is not for the purpose of benefiting the trading
position of the firm, a customer or a class of customers.65

64
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(b)(1) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).
65
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(b)(2) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).

--- PAGE 36 ---

Page 36 of 468
The proposed rule change also would permit sales and trading and principal
trading personnel to seek the views of debt research analysts regarding the
creditworthiness of the issuer of a debt security and other information regarding an
issuer of a debt security that is reasonably related to the price or performance of the
debt security, so long as, with respect to any covered issuer, such information is
consistent with the debt research analyst’s published debt research report and consistent
in nature with the types of communications that a debt research analyst might have
with customers. In determining what is consistent with the debt research analyst’s
published debt research, a member may consider the context, including that the
investment objectives or time horizons being discussed differ from those underlying the
debt research analyst’s published views.66 Finally, debt research analysts may seek
information from sales and trading and principal trading personnel regarding a
particular debt instrument, current prices, spreads, liquidity and similar market
information relevant to the debt research analyst’s valuation of a particular debt
security.67
The proposed rule change clarifies that communications between debt research
analysts and sales and trading or principal trading personnel that are not related to
sales and trading, principal trading or debt research activities may take place without
restriction, unless otherwise prohibited.68

66
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(b)(3) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).
67
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(b)(4) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).
68
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(c) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).

--- PAGE 37 ---

Page 37 of 468
Restrictions on Communications with Customers and Internal Sales Personnel
The proposed rule change would apply standards to communications with
customers and internal sales personnel. Any written or oral communication by a debt
research analyst with a current or prospective customer or internal personnel related to an
investment banking services transaction must be fair, balanced and not misleading, taking
into consideration the overall context in which the communication is made.69
Consistent with the prohibition on investment banking department personnel
directly or indirectly directing a debt research analyst to engage in sales or marketing
efforts related to an investment banking services transaction or directing a debt research
analyst to engage in any communication with a current or prospective customer about an
investment banking services transaction, no debt research analyst may engage in any
communication with a current or prospective customer in the presence of investment
banking department personnel or company management about an investment banking
services transaction. These provisions are intended to allow debt research analysts to
educate investors and internal sales personnel about an investment banking transaction in
fair and balanced manner, in a setting that promotes candor by the debt research analyst.70
Content and Disclosure in Debt Research Reports
The proposed rule change would, in general, adopt the disclosures in the equity
research rule for debt research, with modifications to reflect the different characteristics

69
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.02(b) (Restrictions on Communications with
Customers and Internal Personnel).
70
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.02(a) (Restrictions on Communications with
Customers and Internal Personnel).

--- PAGE 38 ---

Page 38 of 468
of the debt market. As discussed above, the equity research rules are designed to provide
investors with useful information on which to base their investment decisions. FINRA
believes retail debt investors would benefit from similar disclosures applied to debt
research reports. In addition, FINRA understands from industry participants that
members have systems in place to track the disclosures required under the equity research
rules that can be leveraged to meet the debt research disclosure requirements in the
proposed rule change.
The proposed rule change would require members to establish, maintain and
enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that purported
facts in their debt research reports are based on reliable information.71 FINRA has
included this provision because it believes members should have policies and procedures
to foster verification of facts and trustworthy research on which investors may rely. In
addition, the policies and procedures must be reasonably designed to ensure that any
recommendation or rating has a reasonable basis and is accompanied by a clear
explanation of any valuation method used and a fair presentation of the risks that may
impede achievement of the recommendation or rating.72 While there is no obligation to
employ a rating system under the proposed rule, members that choose to employ a rating
system must clearly define in each debt research report the meaning of each rating in the
system, including the time horizon and any benchmarks on which a rating is based. In
addition, the definition of each rating must be consistent with its plain meaning.73

71
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(1)(A).
72
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(1)(B).
73
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(2).

--- PAGE 39 ---

Page 39 of 468
Consistent with the equity rules, irrespective of the rating system a member
employs, a member must disclose, in each debt research report that includes a rating, the
percentage of all debt securities rated by the member to which the member would assign
a “buy,” “hold” or “sell” rating.74 In addition, a member must disclose in each debt
research report the percentage of subject companies within each of the “buy,” “hold” and
“sell” categories for which the member has provided investment banking services within
the previous 12 months.75 All such information must be current as of the end of the most
recent calendar quarter or the second most recent calendar quarter if the publication date
of the debt research report is less than 15 calendar days after the most recent calendar
quarter.76
If a debt research report contains a rating for a subject company’s debt security
and the member has assigned a rating to such debt security for at least one year, the
debt research report must show each date on which a member has assigned a rating to
the debt security and the rating assigned on such date. This information would be
required for the period that the member has assigned any rating to the debt security or
for a three-year period, whichever is shorter.77 Unlike the equity research rules, the
proposed rule change does not require those ratings to be plotted on a price chart
because of limits on price transparency, including daily closing price information, with
respect to many debt securities.

74
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(2)(A).
75
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(2)(B).
76
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(2)(C).
77
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(3).

--- PAGE 40 ---

Page 40 of 468
The proposed rule change would require78 a member to disclose in any debt
research report at the time of publication or distribution of the report:
 if the debt research analyst or a member of the debt research analyst’s
household has a financial interest in the debt or equity securities of the subject
company (including, without limitation, any option, right, warrant, future, long
or short position), and the nature of such interest;
 if the debt research analyst has received compensation based upon (among other
factors) the member’s investment banking, sales and trading or principal trading
revenues;
 if the member or any of its affiliates: managed or co-managed a public offering
of securities for the subject company in the past 12 months; received
compensation for investment banking services from the subject company in the
past 12 months; or expects to receive or intends to seek compensation for
investment banking services from the subject company in the next three
months;
 if, as of the end of the month immediately preceding the date of publication or
distribution of a debt research report (or the end of the second most recent
month if the publication date is less than 30 calendar days after the end of the
most recent month), the member or its affiliates have received from the subject
company any compensation for products or services other than investment
banking services in the previous 12 months;79

78
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(4).
79
See also discussion of proposed FINRA Rule 2242.04 (Disclosure of
Compensation Received by Affiliates) below.

--- PAGE 41 ---

Page 41 of 468
 if the subject company is, or over the 12-month period preceding the date of
publication or distribution of the debt research report has been, a client of the
member, and if so, the types of services provided to the issuer. Such services, if
applicable, shall be identified as either investment banking services, non-
investment banking securities-related services or non-securities services;
 if the member trades or may trade as principal in the debt securities (or in
related derivatives) that are the subject of the debt research report;80
 if the debt research analyst received any compensation from the subject
company in the previous 12 months; and
 any other material conflict of interest of the debt research analyst or member that
the debt research analyst or an associated person of the member with the ability to
influence the content of a debt research report knows or has reason to know at the
time of the publication or distribution of a debt research report.81
The proposed rule change would incorporate a proposed amendment to the
corresponding provision in the equity research rules that expands the existing “catch all”
disclosure to require disclosure of material conflicts known not only by the research
analyst, but also by any “associated person of the member with the ability to influence the
content of a research report.” In so doing, the proposed rule change would capture
material conflicts of interest that, for example, only a supervisor or the head of research
may be aware of. The “reason to know” standard would not impose a duty of inquiry on

80
This provision is analogous to the equity research rule requirement to disclose
market making activity.
81
For example, FINRA would consider it to be a material conflict of interest if the
debt research analyst or a member of the debt research analyst’s household serves
as an officer, director or advisory board member of the subject company.

--- PAGE 42 ---

Page 42 of 468
the debt research analyst or others who can influence the content of a debt research
report. Rather, it would cover disclosure of those conflicts that should reasonably be
discovered by those persons in the ordinary course of discharging their functions.
The proposed equity research rules include an additional disclosure if the member
or its affiliates maintain a significant financial interest in the debt or equity of the subject
company, including, at a minimum, if the member or its affiliates beneficially own 1% or
more of any class of common equity securities of the subject company. FINRA did not
include this provision in the proposed debt research rule because, unlike equity holdings,
firms do not typically have systems to track ownership of debt securities. Moreover, the
number and complexity of bonds, together with the fact that a firm may be both long and
short different bonds of the same issuer, make it difficult to have real-time disclosure of a
firm’s credit exposure. Therefore, the proposed rule change only requires disclosure of
firm ownership of debt securities in research reports or a public appearance to the extent
those holdings constitute a material conflict of interest.82 While the ownership of the
equity securities of the subject company of a debt research report can constitute a conflict
of interest for the member that publishes or distributes the research report, FINRA does
not believe the conflict requires routine disclosure, even above some threshold of
ownership. This is because the impact of a debt research report on the market for an
equity security is more attenuated than that of an equity research report. In those
circumstances where the impact is heightened – e.g., a debt research report asserting that
a subject company may not be able to meet its debt service – disclosure could be captured
by the material conflict of interest provision.

82
See proposed FINRA Rules 2242(c)(4)(H) and (d)(1)(E).

--- PAGE 43 ---

Page 43 of 468
The proposed rule change adopts from the equity research rules the general
exception for disclosure that would reveal material non-public information regarding
specific potential future investment banking transactions of the subject company.83
Similar to the equity research rules, the proposed rule change would require that
disclosures be presented on the front page of debt research reports or the front page
must refer to the page on which the disclosures are found. Electronic debt research
reports, however, may provide a hyperlink directly to the required disclosures. All
disclosures and references to disclosures required by the proposed rule must be
clear, comprehensive and prominent.84
Like the equity research rule, the proposed rule change would permit a member
that distributes a debt research report covering six or more companies (compendium
report) to direct the reader in a clear manner to the applicable disclosures. Electronic
compendium reports must include a hyperlink to the required disclosures. Paper-based
compendium reports must provide either a toll-free number or a postal address to request
the required disclosures and also may include a web address of the member where the
disclosures can be found.85
Disclosure of Compensation Received by Affiliates
The proposed rule change would provide that a member may satisfy the disclosure
requirement with respect to receipt of non-investment banking services compensation by
an affiliate by implementing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to

83
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(5).
84
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(6).
85
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(7).

--- PAGE 44 ---

Page 44 of 468
prevent the debt research analyst and associated persons of the member with the ability to
influence the content of debt research reports from directly or indirectly receiving
information from the affiliate as to whether the affiliate received such compensation.86 In
addition, a member may satisfy the disclosure requirement with respect to the receipt of
investment banking compensation from a foreign sovereign by a non-U.S. affiliate of the
member by implementing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent
the debt research analyst and associated persons of the member with the ability to
influence the content of debt research reports from directly or indirectly receiving
information from the non-U.S. affiliate as to whether such non-U.S. affiliate received or
expects to receive such compensation from the foreign sovereign. However, a member
must disclose receipt of compensation by its affiliates from the subject company
(including any foreign sovereign) in the past 12 months when the debt research analyst or
an associated person with the ability to influence the content of a debt research report has
actual knowledge that an affiliate received such compensation during that time period.
Disclosure in Public Appearances
The proposed rule change closely parallels the equity research rules with respect
to disclosure in public appearances. Under the proposed rule, a debt research analyst
must disclose in public appearances:87
 if the debt research analyst or a member of the debt research analyst’s household
has a financial interest in the debt or equity securities of the subject company
(including, without limitation, whether it consists of any option, right, warrant,

86
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.04 (Disclosure of Compensation Received by
Affiliates).
87
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(d)(1).

--- PAGE 45 ---

Page 45 of 468
future, long or short position), and the nature of such interest;
 if, to the extent the debt research analyst knows or has reason to know, the
member or any affiliate received any compensation from the subject company in
the previous 12 months;
 if the debt research analyst received any compensation from the subject company
in the previous 12 months;
 if, to the extent the debt research analyst knows or has reason to know, the
subject company currently is, or during the 12-month period preceding the date
of publication or distribution of the debt research report, was, a client of the
member. In such cases, the debt research analyst also must disclose the types of
services provided to the subject company, if known by the debt research analyst;
or
 any other material conflict of interest of the debt research analyst or member that
the debt research analyst knows or has reason to know at the time of the public
appearance.
However, a member or debt research analyst will not be required to make
any such disclosure to the extent it would reveal material non-public information
regarding specific potential future investment banking transactions of the subject
company.88 Unlike in debt research reports, the “catch all” disclosure requirement
in public appearances applies only to a conflict of interest of the debt research
analyst or member that the analyst knows or has reason to know at the time of the
public appearance and does not extend to conflicts that an associated person with the

88
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(d)(2).

--- PAGE 46 ---

Page 46 of 468
ability to influence the content of a research report or public appearance knows or
has reason to know. FINRA understands that supervisors typically do not have the
opportunity to review and insist on changes to public appearances, many of which
are extemporaneous in nature.
The proposed rule change would require members to maintain records of
public appearances by debt research analysts sufficient to demonstrate compliance
by those debt research analysts with the applicable disclosure requirements for
public appearances. Such records must be maintained for at least three years from
the date of the public appearance.89
Disclosure Required by Other Provisions
With respect to both research reports and public appearances, the proposed rule
change would require that, in addition to the disclosures required under the proposed
rule, members and debt research analysts must comply with all applicable disclosure
provisions of FINRA Rule 2210 (Communications with the Public) and the federal
securities laws.90
Distribution of Member Research Reports
The proposed rule change, like the proposed amendments to the equity research
rules, codifies an existing interpretation of FINRA Rule 2010 (Standards of Commercial
Honor and Principles of Trade) and provides additional guidance regarding selective – or
tiered – dissemination of a firm’s debt research reports. The proposed rule change
requires firms to establish, maintain and enforce written policies and procedures

89
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(d)(3).
90
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(e).

--- PAGE 47 ---

Page 47 of 468
reasonably designed to ensure that a debt research report is not distributed selectively to
internal trading personnel or a particular customer or class of customers in advance of
other customers that the member has previously determined are entitled to receive the
debt research report.91 The proposed rule change includes further guidance to explain
that firms may provide different debt research products and services to different classes
of customers, provided the products are not differentiated based on the timing of receipt
of potentially market moving information and the firm discloses its research
dissemination practices to all customers that receive a research product.92

A member, for example, may offer one debt research product for those with a
long-term investment horizon (“investor research”) and a different debt research product
for those customers with a short-term investment horizon (“trading research”). These
products may lead to different recommendations or ratings, provided that each is
consistent with the meaning of the member’s ratings system for each respective product.
However, a member may not differentiate a debt research product based on the timing of
receipt of a recommendation, rating or other potentially market moving information, nor
may a member label a debt research product with substantially the same content as a
different debt research product as a means to allow certain customers to trade in advance
of other customers.
In addition, a member that provides different debt research products and services
for certain customers must inform its other customers that its alternative debt research
products and services may reach different conclusions or recommendations that could

91
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(f).
92
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.06 (Distribution of Member Research Products).

--- PAGE 48 ---

Page 48 of 468
impact the price of the debt security.93 Thus, for example, a member that offers trading
research must inform its investment research customers that its trading research product
may contain different recommendations or ratings that could result in short-term price
movements contrary to the recommendation in its investment research. FINRA
understands, however, that customers may actually receive at different times research
reports originally made available at the same time because of the mode of delivery
elected by the customer eligible to receive such research services (e.g., in paper form
versus electronic). However, members may not design or implement a distribution
system intended to give a timing advantage to some customers over others. FINRA will
read with interest comments as to whether a member should be required to disclose to its
other customers when an alternative research product or service does, in fact, contain a
recommendation contrary to the research product or service that those customers receive.
Distribution of Third-party Debt Research Reports
FINRA believes that the supervisory review and disclosure obligations applicable
to the distribution of third-party equity research should similarly apply to third-party
retail debt research. Moreover, the proposed rule change would incorporate the current
standards for third-party equity research, including the distinction between independent
and non-independent third-party research with respect to the review and disclosure
requirements. In addition, the proposed rule change adopts an expanded requirement in

93
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.06 (Distribution of Member Research Products).
A member that distributes both institutional and retail debt research would be
required to inform its retail customers of the existence of the institutional debt
research product and, if applicable, that the product may contain different
recommendations or ratings than its retail debt research product. This disclosure
need not be in each retail debt research report; rather, a member may establish
policies and procedures reasonably designed to inform retail investors of the
existence and nature of the institutional debt research product.

--- PAGE 49 ---

Page 49 of 468
the proposed equity research rules that requires members to disclose any other material
conflict of interest that can reasonably be expected to have influenced the member’s
choice of a third-party research provider or the subject company of a third-party research
report. FINRA believes that it is important that readers be made aware of any conflicts of
interest present that may have influenced either the selection or content of third-party
research disseminated to investors.
The proposed rule change would prohibit a member from distributing third-party
debt research if it knows or has reason to know that such research is not objective or
reliable.94 FINRA believes that, where a member is distributing or “pushing-out” third-
party debt research, the member must have written policies and procedures to vet the
quality of the research producers. A member would satisfy the standard based on its
actual knowledge and reasonable diligence; however, there would be no duty of inquiry
to definitively establish that the third-party research is, in fact, objective and reliable.
In addition, the proposed rule change would require a member to establish,
maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure
that any third-party debt research report it distributes contains no untrue statement of
material fact and is otherwise not false or misleading.95 For the purpose of this
requirement, a member’s obligation to review a third-party debt research report
extends to any untrue statement of material fact or any false or misleading
information that should be known from reading the debt research report or is known
based on information otherwise possessed by the member.

94
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(1).

95
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(2).

--- PAGE 50 ---

Page 50 of 468
The proposed rule change would require that a member accompany any third-
party debt research report it distributes with, or provide a web address that directs a
recipient to, disclosure of any material conflict of interest that can reasonably be
expected to have influenced the choice of a third-party debt research report provider or
the subject company of a third-party debt research report, including, at a minimum:
 if the member or any of its affiliates managed or co-managed a public offering of
securities for the subject company in the past 12 months; received compensation
for investment banking services from the subject company in the past 12 months;
or expects to receive or intends to seek compensation for investment banking
services from the subject company in the next three months;
 if the member trades or may trade as principal in the debt securities (or in related
derivatives) that are the subject of the debt research report; and
 any other material conflict of interest of the debt research analyst or member that
the debt research analyst or an associated person of the member with the ability
to influence the content of a debt research report knows or has reason to know at
the time of the publication or distribution of a debt research report.96
The proposed rule change would not require members to review a third-party
debt research report prior to distribution if such debt research report is an independent
third-party debt research report.97 For the purposes of the disclosure requirements for
third-party research reports, a member shall not be considered to have distributed a
third-party debt research report where the research is an independent third-party debt

96
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(3).
97
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(4).

--- PAGE 51 ---

Page 51 of 468
research report and made available by a member upon request, through a member-
maintained website, or to a customer in connection with a solicited order in which the
registered representative has informed the customer, during the solicitation, of the
availability of independent debt research on the solicited debt security and the customer
requests such independent debt research.98
The proposed rule would require that members ensure that third-party debt
research reports are clearly labeled as such and that there is no confusion on the part of
the recipient as to the person or entity that prepared the debt research reports.99
Obligations of Persons Associated with a Member
The proposed rule change clarifies the obligations of each associated person under
those provisions of the proposed rule that require a member to restrict or prohibit certain
conduct by establishing, maintaining and enforcing particular policies and procedures.
Specifically, the proposed rule change provides that, consistent with FINRA Rule 0140,
persons associated with a member must comply with such member’s written policies and
procedures as established pursuant to the proposed rule. Failure of an associated person
to comply with such policies and procedures shall constitute a violation of the proposed
rule.100 In addition, consistent with Rule 0140, the proposed rule states in Supplementary
Material .08 that it shall be a rule violation for an associated person to engage in the
restricted or prohibited conduct to be addressed through the establishment, maintenance

98
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(5).
99
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(6). This requirement codifies guidance in
Notice to Members 04-18 (March 2004) related to equity research reports.
100
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.08 (Obligations of Persons Associated with a
Member).

--- PAGE 52 ---

Page 52 of 468
and enforcement of written policies and procedures required by provisions of FINRA
Rule 2242, including applicable Supplementary Material, that embed in the policies and
procedures specific obligations on individuals. This Supplementary Material reflects
FINRA’s position that associated persons can be held liable for engaging in conduct that
is proscribed by the member under FINRA rules. FINRA is clarifying this point in the
Supplementary Material because the proposed rule change would adopt a policies and
procedures approach to restricted and prohibited conduct with respect to research in place
of specific proscriptions in the current equity research rules. Thus, for example, where
the proposed rule requires a member to establish policies and procedures to prohibit debt
research analyst participation in road shows, associated persons also are directly
prohibited from engaging in such conduct, even where a member has failed to establish
policies and procedures. FINRA believes that it is incumbent upon each associated
person to familiarize themselves with the regulatory requirements applicable to his or her
business and should not be able to avoid responsibility where minimum standards of
conduct have been established for members.
Exemption for Members with Limited Investment Banking Activity
Similar to the equity research rules, the proposed rule change exempts from
certain provisions regarding supervision and compensation of debt research analysts
those members that over the previous three years, on average per year, have participated
in 10 or fewer investment banking services transactions as manager or co-manager and
generated $5 million or less in gross investment banking revenues from those
transactions.101 Specifically, members that meet those thresholds would be exempt from

101
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(h).

--- PAGE 53 ---

Page 53 of 468
the requirement to establish, maintain and enforce policies and procedures that: prohibit
prepublication review of debt research reports by investment banking personnel or other
persons not directly responsible for the preparation, content or distribution of debt
research reports (but not principal trading or sales and trading personnel, unless the
member also qualifies for the limited principal trading activity exemption); restrict or
limit investment banking personnel from input into coverage decisions; limit supervision
of debt research analysts to persons not engaged in investment banking; limit
determination of the research department budget to senior management, excluding senior
management engaged in investment banking activities; require that compensation of a
debt research analyst be approved by a compensation committee that may not have
representation from investment banking personnel; and establish information barriers to
insulate debt research analysts from the review or oversight by persons engaged in
investment banking services or other persons who might be biased in their judgment or
supervision.102 However, the proposed rule would require that members with limited
investment banking activity establish information barriers or other institutional
safeguards to ensure debt research analysts are insulated from pressure by persons
engaged in investment banking services activities or other persons, including persons
engaged in principal trading or principal sales and trading activities, who might be biased
in their judgment or supervision.103 FINRA believes that even where research analysts

102
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(A)(i), (b)(2)(B), (b)(2)(C) (with respect to
investment banking), (b)(2)(D)(i), (b)(2)(E) (with respect to investment banking),
(b)(2)(G) and (b)(2)(H)(i) and (iii).
103
For the purposes of proposed FINRA Rule 2242(h), the term “investment banking
services transactions” includes the underwriting of both corporate debt and equity
securities but not municipal securities.

--- PAGE 54 ---

Page 54 of 468
need not be structurally separated from investment banking or other non-research
personnel, they should not be subject to pressures that could compromise their
independence and objectivity.
While small investment banks may need those who supervise debt research
analysts under such circumstances also to be involved in the determination of those
analysts’ compensation, the proposal still prohibits these firms from compensating a debt
research analyst based upon specific investment banking services transactions or
contributions to a member’s investment banking services activities. Members that
qualify for this exemption must maintain records sufficient to establish eligibility for the
exemption and also maintain for at least three years any communication that, but for this
exemption, would be subject to all of the requirements of proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b).
FINRA has found the thresholds in the current equity rule to be reasonable and
appropriate: they reduce the challenges and costs of compliance for select provisions for
those firms whose limited investment banking business significantly reduces the
magnitude of conflicts that could impact investors. In addition, in the context of the
equity rules, FINRA analyzed data to see if changing the magnitude of either or both
thresholds – the number of transactions managed or co-managed or the amount of gross
revenues generated from those transactions – yielded a more appropriate universe of
exempted firms. FINRA reviewed and analyzed deal data for calendar years 2009
through 2011. FINRA reviewed firms that either managed or co-managed deals and
earned underwriting revenues from those transactions during the review period. The
analysis found that 155 of 317 such firms – or 49% – would have been eligible for the
exemption. The data further suggested that incremental upward adjustments to the

--- PAGE 55 ---

Page 55 of 468
exemption thresholds would not result in a significant number of additional firms eligible
for the exemption. For example, increasing both of the thresholds by 33% (to 40
transactions managed or co-managed and $20 million in gross revenues over a three-year
period) would result in 18 additional exempted firms. As such, FINRA believes the
current exemption produces a reasonable and appropriate universe of exempted firms.
Since the exemption in the equity research rules relates to the same investment banking
conflicts that debt research analysts face, FINRA believes the exemption, with its current
thresholds, is equally reasonable and appropriate for the debt research rules.
Exemption for Limited Principal Trading Activity
FINRA believes it appropriate to provide an exemption from some provisions of
the proposed rule that require separation of debt research from sales and trading and
principal trading for firms whose limited principal trading operations results in an
appreciably increased burden of compliance relative to the expected investor protection
benefits. In general, FINRA believes that firms with modest potential principal trading
profits pose lower risk of having sales and trading or principal trading personnel pressure
debt analysts, provided other safeguards remain in place. The proposed rule change
therefore includes an exemption from certain provisions regarding supervision and
compensation of debt research analysts for members that engage in limited principal
trading activity where: (1) in absolute value on an annual basis, the member’s trading
gains or losses on principal trades in debt securities are $15 million or less over the
previous three years, on average per year; and (2) the member employs fewer than 10
debt traders; provided, however, such members must establish information barriers or
other institutional safeguards to ensure debt research analysts are insulated from pressure

--- PAGE 56 ---

Page 56 of 468
by persons engaged in principal trading or sales and trading activities or other persons
who might be biased in their judgment or supervision.104 Specifically, members that
meet those thresholds would be exempt from the requirement to establish, maintain and
enforce policies and procedures that: prohibit prepublication review of debt research
reports by principal trading or sales and trading personnel or other persons not directly
responsible for the preparation, content or distribution of debt research reports (but not
investment banking personnel, unless the firm also qualifies for the limited investment
banking activity exemption); restrict or limit principal trading or sales and trading
personnel from input into coverage decisions; limit supervision of debt research analysts
to persons not engaged in sales and trading or principal trading activities, including input
into the compensation of debt research analysts; limit determination of the research
department budget to senior management, excluding senior management engaged in
principal trading activities; require that compensation of a debt research analyst be
approved by a compensation committee that may not have representation from principal
trading personnel; and establish information barriers to insulate debt research analysts
from the review or oversight by persons engaged in principal trading or sales and trading
activities or other persons who might be biased in their judgment or supervision. 105
As with the limited investment banking activity exemption, members still would be
required to establish information barriers or other institutional safeguards to ensure debt
research analysts are insulated from pressure by persons engaged in principal trading or

104
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(i).
105
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(A)(ii) and (iii), (b)(2)(B), (b)(2)(C) (with
respect to sales and trading and principal trading), (b)(2)(D)(ii) and (iii), (b)(2)(E)
(with respect to principal trading), (b)(2)(G) and (b)(2)(H)(ii) and (iii).

--- PAGE 57 ---

Page 57 of 468
sales and trading activities or other persons who might be biased in their judgment or
supervision. Members that qualify for this exemption must maintain records sufficient to
establish eligibility for the exemption and also maintain for at least three years any
communication that, but for this exemption, would be subject to all of the requirements of
proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b).
In crafting the exemption, FINRA sought a rational principal debt trading revenue
threshold for small firms where the conflicts addressed by the proposal might be
minimized. FINRA further considered the ability of firms with limited personnel to
comply with the provisions that require effective separation of principal debt trading and
debt research activities. To those ends, FINRA reviewed and analyzed available TRACE
and FOCUS data, particularly with respect to small firms (150 or fewer registered
representatives). FINRA supplemented its analysis with survey results from 72
geographically diverse small firms that engage in principal debt trading in varying
magnitudes. The survey sought more specific information on the nature of the firms’
debt trading – the breakdown between trading in corporate versus municipal securities
(which are excepted from the proposal) and the amount of “riskless principal” trading –
as well as the number of debt traders, whether any of those traders write research or
market commentary, and the prospective ability of firms to comply with the proposal’s
structural separation requirements.
Based on the data, FINRA analyzed the range of principal debt revenues
generated by small firms and determined that $15 million would be a reasonable
threshold for the exemption. However, because the revenue figure represents a net gain
or loss (in absolute terms) from principal debt trading activity, the potential exists that a

--- PAGE 58 ---

Page 58 of 468
firm with substantial trading operations could have an anomalous year that yields net
revenues under the threshold. Therefore, FINRA added as a backstop the second
criterion of having fewer than 10 debt traders, to ensure the exemption applies only to
firms with modest debt trading activity. Furthermore, based on the assessment, FINRA
believes firms with 10 or more debt traders are more capable of dedicating a debt trader
to writing research. FINRA notes that only eight of the 72 responding survey firms
indicated that they have debt traders that write either research or market commentary –
which is excepted from the definition of “debt research report” under the proposal – on
debt securities. FINRA intends to monitor the research produced by firms that avail
themselves of the exemption to assess whether the thresholds to qualify for the exemption
are appropriate or should be modified.
Exemption for Debt Research Reports Provided to Institutional Investors
FINRA understands that, unlike in the equity market, institutional investors
trading in debt securities tend to interact with broker-dealers in a manner more closely
resembling that of a counterparty than a customer. FINRA further understands that these
institutional investors value the timely flow of analysis and trade ideas related to debt
securities, are aware of the types of potential conflicts that may exist between a member’s
recommendations and trading interests, and are capable of exercising independent
judgment in evaluating such recommendations (and selectively incorporate research as a
data point in their own analytics) and reaching pricing decisions. Moreover, some well-
regarded debt research is produced by analysts that are part of the trading desk. The
separation required by the Rule would preclude this source of information. Given the
debt market and the needs of its participants, the proposed rule change would exempt

--- PAGE 59 ---

Page 59 of 468
debt research distributed solely to eligible institutional investors (“institutional debt
research”) from most of the provisions regarding supervision, coverage determinations,
budget and compensation determinations and all of the disclosure requirements
applicable to debt research reports distributed to retail investors (“retail debt
research”).106 Under the proposed rule change, the term “retail investor” means any
person other than an institutional investor.107
FINRA believes that institutional investors should opt in to receive institutional
debt research and should be able to choose to receive only debt research that is subject to
the full protections of the rule. The proposed rule distinguishes between larger and
smaller institutions in the manner in which their opt-in decision is obtained. The larger
may receive institutional debt research based on negative consent, while the smaller must
affirmatively consent in writing to receive that research.
Specifically, the proposed rule would allow firms to distribute institutional debt
research by negative consent to a person who meets the definition of a QIB108 and where,
pursuant to FINRA Rule 2111(b): (1) the member or associated person has a reasonable
basis to believe that the QIB is capable of evaluating investment risks independently,
both in general and with regard to particular transactions and investment strategies
involving a debt security or debt securities; and (2) the QIB has affirmatively indicated
that it is exercising independent judgment in evaluating the member’s recommendations
pursuant to FINRA Rule 2111 and such affirmation is broad enough to encompass

106
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(1).
107
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(13).

108
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(12) under which a QIB has the same meaning
as under Rule 144A of the Securities Act.

--- PAGE 60 ---

Page 60 of 468
transactions in debt securities. The proposed rule change would require written
disclosure to the QIB that the member may provide debt research reports that are
intended for institutional investors and are not subject to all of the independence and
disclosure standards applicable to debt research reports prepared for retail investors. If
the QIB does not contact the member and request to receive only retail debt research
reports, the member may reasonably conclude that the QIB has consented to receiving
institutional debt research reports.109 FINRA interprets this standard to allow an order
placer, e.g., a registered investment adviser, for a QIB that satisfies the FINRA Rule 2111
institutional suitability requirements with respect to debt transactions to agree to receive
institutional debt research on behalf of the QIB by negative consent.
Institutional accounts that meet the definition of FINRA Rule 4512(c) but do not
satisfy the higher tier requirements described above may still affirmatively elect in
writing to receive institutional debt research. Specifically, a person that meets the
definition of “institutional account” in FINRA Rule 4512(c) may receive institutional
debt research provided that such person, prior to receipt of a debt research report, has
affirmatively notified the member in writing that it wishes to receive institutional debt
research and forego treatment as a retail investor for the purposes of the proposed rule.
Retail investors may not choose to receive institutional debt research.110
To avoid a disruption in the receipt of institutional debt research, the proposed
rule change would allow firms to send institutional debt research to any FINRA Rule
4512(c) account, except a natural person, without affirmative or negative consent for a

109
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(1)(A)(i) and (ii).

110
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(1)(B).

--- PAGE 61 ---

Page 61 of 468
period of up to one year after SEC approval while they obtain the necessary consents.
Natural persons that qualify as an institutional account under FINRA Rule 4512(c) must
provide affirmative consent to receive institutional debt research during this transition
period and thereafter.111
The proposed exemption relieves members that distribute institutional debt
research to institutional investors from the requirements to have written policies and
procedures for this research with respect to: (1) restricting or prohibiting prepublication
review of institutional debt research by principal trading and sales and trading personnel
or others outside the research department, other than investment banking personnel; (2)
input by investment banking, principal trading and sales and trading into coverage
decisions; (3) limiting supervision of debt research analysts to persons not engaged in
investment banking, principal trading or sales and trading activities; (4) limiting
determination of the debt research department’s budget to senior management not
engaged in investment banking or principal trading activities and without regard to
specific revenues derived from investment banking; (5) determination of debt research
analyst compensation; (6) restricting or limiting debt research analyst account trading;
and (7) information barriers to ensure debt research analysts are insulated from review or
oversight by investment banking, sales and trading or principal trading personnel, among
others (but members still must have written policies and procedures to guard again those
persons pressuring analysts). The exemption further would apply to all disclosure
requirements, including content and disclosure requirements for third-party research.

111
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.11 (Distribution of Institutional Debt Research
During Transition Period).

--- PAGE 62 ---

Page 62 of 468
Notwithstanding the proposed exemption, some provisions of the proposed rule
still would apply to institutional debt research, including the prohibition on
prepublication review of debt research reports by investment banking personnel and the
restrictions on such review by subject companies. While prepublication review by
principal trading and sales and trading personnel would not be prohibited pursuant to the
exemption, other provisions of the rule continue to require management of those
conflicts, including the requirement to impose information barriers to insulate debt
research analysts from pressure by those persons. Furthermore, the requirements in
Supplementary Material .05 related to submission of sections of a draft debt research
report for factual review would apply to any permitted prepublication review by persons
not directly responsible for the preparation, content or distribution of debt research
reports. In addition, members must prohibit debt research analysts from participating in
the solicitation of investment banking services transactions, road shows and other
marketing on behalf of issuers and further prohibit investment banking personnel from
directly or indirectly directing a debt research analyst to engage in sales and marketing
efforts related to an investment banking deal or to communicate with a current or
prospective customer with respect to such transactions. The provisions regarding
retaliation against debt research analysts and promises of favorable debt research also still
apply with respect to research distributed to eligible institutional investors.112 FINRA
believes that, notwithstanding the sophistication of its recipients, minimum objectivity

112
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(2). A member must establish, maintain and
enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and
effectively manage conflicts of interest described in paragraphs (b)(2)(A)(i),
(b)(2)(H) (with respect to pressuring), (b)(2)(I), (b)(2)(K), (b)(2)(L), (b)(2)(M),
(b)(2)(N) and Supplementary Material .02(a).

--- PAGE 63 ---

Page 63 of 468
standards should apply to institutional debt research and members should not be
encouraged to use debt research analysts for the purpose of soliciting and marketing
investment banking transactions.
While the proposed rule change does not require institutional debt research to
carry the specific disclosures applicable to retail debt research, it does require that such
research carry general disclosures prominently on the first page warning that: (1) the
report is intended only for institutional investors and does not carry all of the
independence and disclosure standards of retail debt research reports; (2) if applicable,
that the views in the report may differ from the views offered in retail debt research
reports; and (3) if applicable, that the report may not be independent of the firm’s
proprietary interests and that the firm trades the securities covered in the report for its
own account and on a discretionary basis on behalf of certain customers, and such trading
interests may be contrary to the recommendation in the report.113 Thus, the second and
third disclosures described above would be required only if the member produces both
retail and institutional debt research reports that sometimes differ in their views or if the
member maintains a proprietary trading desk or trades on a discretionary basis on behalf
of some customers and those interests sometimes are contrary to recommendations in
institutional debt research reports. Although FINRA typically favors specific disclosure
e.g., that a view or recommendation does, in fact, differ or is contrary to the member’s

113
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(3). With respect to the disclosure
requirement, if applicable, that the views in the institutional debt research report
may differ from views in retail debt research, FINRA notes institutional debt
research is not subject to Supplementary Material .06, which otherwise requires a
member to inform its customers of the existence of a different research product
offered to other customers that may reach different conclusions or
recommendations that could impact the price of the debt security.

--- PAGE 64 ---

Page 64 of 468
trading interests – FINRA believes that the cost to track and identify a specific conflict
with respect to institutional debt research reports exceeds the value that specific
disclosure would provide to sophisticated institutional investors, particularly since those
investors value timely analysis and trade ideas that could be diminished due to the
burdens associated with a specific disclosure requirement.
FINRA believes that this approach will maintain the flow of institutional debt
research to most institutional investors and allow firms to leverage existing compliance
efforts, while ensuring that those investors who receive institutional debt research
through negative consent have a high level of experience in evaluating transactions
involving debt securities, and that certain protections remain in place to manage potential
conflicts of interest. In addition, FINRA believes that this approach appropriately
acknowledges the arm’s-length nature of transactions between trading desk personnel and
institutional buyers. Finally, FINRA notes that no institutional investor will be exposed
to this less-protected institutional research without either negative or affirmative consent,
as applicable.
The proposed rule change would require members to establish, maintain and
enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that institutional
debt research is made available only to eligible institutional investors.114 A member
may not rely on the proposed exemption with respect to a debt research report that the
member has reason to believe will be redistributed to a retail investor. The proposed
rule change also states that the proposed exemption does not relieve a member of its
obligations to comply with the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws and

114
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(4).

--- PAGE 65 ---

Page 65 of 468
FINRA rules.115
General Exemptive Authority
The proposed rule change would provide FINRA, pursuant to the FINRA Rule
9600 Series, with authority to conditionally or unconditionally grant, in exceptional and
unusual circumstances, an exemption from any requirement of the proposed rule for good
cause shown, after taking into account all relevant factors and provided that such
exemption is consistent with the purposes of the rule, the protection of investors, and the
public interest.116 Given the scope of the rule’s subject matter and the diversity of firm
sizes, structures and research business and distribution models, FINRA believes it would
be useful and appropriate to have the ability to provide relief from a particular provision
of the proposed rules under specific factual circumstances.
As noted in Item 2 of this filing, FINRA will announce the effective date of the
proposed rule change in a Regulatory Notice to be published no later than 60 days
following Commission approval. The effective date will be no later than 180 days
following publication of the Regulatory Notice announcing Commission approval.
(b)
Statutory Basis

FINRA believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of
Section 15A(b)(6) of the Act,117 which requires, among other things, that FINRA rules
must be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote
just and equitable principles of trade, and, in general, to protect investors and the public

115
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(5).
116
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(k).

117
15 U.S.C. 78o-3(b)(6).

--- PAGE 66 ---

Page 66 of 468
interest. FINRA believes that the proposed rule change would promote increased quality,
objectivity and transparency of debt research distributed to investors by requiring firms to
identify and mitigate conflicts in the preparation and distribution of such research.
FINRA further believes the rule will provide investors with more reliable information on
which to base investment decisions in debt securities, while maintaining timely flow of
information important to institutional market participants and providing those
institutional investors with appropriate safeguards.
4.
Self-Regulatory Organization’s Statement on Burden on Competition

FINRA does not believe that the proposed rule change will result in any burden
on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the
Act. The proposed rule change largely adopts provisions that have proven effective to
promote objective and reliable research in the equity research space, as detailed through
academic studies and other observations in the Joint Report and the GAO Report.118 The
GAO report, for example, concluded that empirical studies suggest the rules have resulted
in increased analyst independence and weakened the influence of conflicts of interest on
analyst recommendations.119

The proposed rule change would adopt a policies and procedures approach that
allows members to implement a compliance system that aligns with their particular
structure and business models, without diminishing investor protection. FINRA believes
that this proposed approach imposes less cost on members without reducing investor
protections than does a purely prescriptive approach or “one size fits all” approach with

118
See Joint Report, supra note 7 at 12-23.
119
See GAO Report, supra note 8 at 11-15.

--- PAGE 67 ---

Page 67 of 468
respect to compliance. In addition, the proposed rule adopts a substantial portion of the
equity research rules. FINRA believes that many of the same conflicts of interest are
present in the publication and distribution of equity and debt research and that
consistency among the debt and equity research rules will further minimize the burdens
to members to comply with the proposed rule change.
As set forth in Item 5, FINRA elicited comment on proposed debt research rules
in two separate Regulatory Notices. In each instance, FINRA carefully considered the
commenters’ concerns and amended the proposal to address issues with respect to costs
and burdens raised by commenters. Even before the two proposals, FINRA issued a
concept proposal in Regulatory Notice 11-11 to gather information and identify
provisions of the equity research rules that would not be efficient or effective in a debt
research proposal. For example, the concept proposal included a parallel provision to the
equity rules that would have required a firm to promptly notify its customers if it intends
to terminate coverage in a debt security and include with the notice a final research
report. If it were impracticable to provide such final report, the concept proposal would
have required a firm to disclose to customers its reason for terminating coverage. FINRA
recognized that firms may have an extensive coverage universe of debt securities that
may only be the subject of episodic research coverage. As such, FINRA determined that
the termination of coverage provision in the debt context would be overly burdensome to
firms relative to its investor protection value and therefore eliminated the provision from
this revised proposal.
In addition, and as detailed below in Item 5, FINRA considered numerous
iterations of an institutional exemption for debt research. Several commenters raised

--- PAGE 68 ---

Page 68 of 468
issues regarding an earlier provision that would have required affirmative consent for all
institutional investors. In response to comments that the proposal was overly
burdensome and may exclude a significant number of institutional investors from
receiving the debt research that they receive today, FINRA is now proposing a higher tier
of institutional investors that may receive institutional debt research based on negative
consent. As set forth in Regulatory Notice 12-42, FINRA also made several other
changes and clarifications in response to comments, including to the definition of “debt
research report,” the standard for disclosure of conflicts and the permissible interactions
between debt research analysts and sales and trading personnel.
FINRA also considered an alternative suggested by commenters to exempt all
trader commentary from the protections of the proposed rule. FINRA did not adopt this
alternative because it would create an avenue through which firms could funnel debt
research to retail investors without objectivity and reliability safeguards or disclosure of
conflicts. FINRA reviewed examples of trader commentary and believes that many of
those communications either do not meet the definition of a research report or are subject
to exceptions from that definition. For those that are debt research reports, FINRA
believes retail recipients should be entitled to the same protections, irrespective of the
author or department of origin. FINRA further understands that most trader commentary
is intended for sophisticated institutional investors, and to the extent a firm limits
distribution to eligible institutional investors, most of the provisions of the proposed rule
change would not apply. Therefore, FINRA believes its institutional exemption approach
strikes the appropriate balance between protecting retail investors and maintaining timely
information flow to more sophisticated investors.

--- PAGE 69 ---

Page 69 of 468
FINRA also sought comment and engaged in data analysis, as described in Item 3,
to fashion exemptions for firms with limited investment banking activity and limited
principal trading activity. In combination with the institutional investor exemption,
FINRA believes the proposed rule change is narrowly tailored to achieve its regulatory
objectives.
Finally, FINRA notes that it solicited comment in Regulatory Notice 12-42 on the
economic impact of the proposed rule change, including quantified costs and the
anticipated effects on competition, but received little or no feedback.
5.
Self-Regulatory Organization’s Statement on Comments on the Proposed
Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others

Earlier iterations of the proposed rule change were published for comment in
Regulatory Notice 12-09 (“Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal) and Regulatory Notice 12-
42 (”Regulatory Notice 12-42 Proposal”) (together, the “Notice Proposals”). Copies of
the Regulatory Notices are attached as Exhibit 2a. A list of the commenters and copies of
the comment letters received in response to the Notice Proposals are attached as Exhibits
2b and 2c, respectively.
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal sought comment on a proposed rule to
govern the preparation and distribution of debt research pursuant to a tiered approach
based on whether debt research is distributed to retail or institutional investors. Under
the proposal, debt research distributed to retail investors would carry most of the same
protections provided to recipients of equity research, while institutional investors could
affirmatively opt in to a framework that would exempt such research from many of those

--- PAGE 70 ---

Page 70 of 468
provisions. FINRA received seven comments in response to the proposal.120
Commenters suggested significant changes to the proposal, most notably with respect to
the definitions of “debt security” and “debt research report,” the opt-in requirement for
institutional investors, and the restrictions on input into debt research budget and
compensation determinations by those involved in principal trading activities.
FINRA addressed several of the commenters’ concerns in the Regulatory Notice
12-42 Proposal, which included, among other things, amended exemptions for research
distributed to certain institutional investors and for firms with limited principal debt
trading activity. The amended exemption for institutional investors added a higher tier of
institutional investor that could receive institutional debt research by negative consent.
FINRA received five comment letters on the proposal.121 The comments focused on two

120
See Letter from Joseph R.V. Romano, President, Romano Brothers & Co., to
Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated March 31, 2012
(“Romano”); letter from Ryan K. Bakhtiari, President, Public Investors
Arbitration Bar Association, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA,
dated April 2, 2012 (“PIABA”); letter from Ira D. Hammerman, Senior Managing
Director, General Counsel and Secretary, Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated
April 2, 2012 (“SIFMA”); letter from Michael Nicholas, CEO, Bond Dealers of
America, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated April 2, 2012
(“BDA”); letter from Lee A. Pickard and William D. Edick, Pickard and Djinis
LLP, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated April 2, 2012
(“ASIR”); letter from Chris Charles, President, Wulff, Hansen & Co., to Marcia
E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated April 5, 2012 (“Wulff”); and
letter from Amy Natterson Kroll, Bingham McCutchen LLP, to Marcia E.
Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated April 10, 2012 (“Morgan Stanley”).
121
See Letter from Kurt N. Schacht, Managing Director, and Linda L. Rittenhouse,
Director, CFA Institute, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated
December 7, 2012 (“CFA”); letter from Michael Nicholas, CEO, Bond Dealers of
America, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated December 20,
2012 (“BDA”); letter from Lee A. Pickard and William D. Edick, Pickard and
Djinis LLP, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated December
20, 2012 (“ASIR”); letter from Roberts J. Stracks, Counsel, BMO Capital
Markets GKST Inc., to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated

--- PAGE 71 ---

Page 71 of 468
primary issues: the higher tier definition of institutional investor and the restrictions on
input by principal trading personnel into research budget and evaluation and
compensation determinations. Despite specific requests in the Regulatory Notice,
FINRA received little or no comment on the economic impact of the proposal or any
particular provisions.
A summary of the comments received on the Notice Proposals and FINRA’s
responses are set forth below.
Definitions
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal defined “debt security” to mean any
“security” as defined in Section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act, except for any “equity
security,” “municipal security” or “security-based swap” as defined in Section 3(a) of the
Exchange Act, or any U.S. Treasury Security as defined in FINRA Rule 6710(p).
SIFMA and BDA urged FINRA to expand the exceptions to the definition to include U.S.
agency securities and investment grade foreign government securities. BDA again urged
FINRA to exclude U.S. agency securities in response to the Regulatory Notice 12-42
Proposal. SIFMA further asked FINRA to clarify that “derivatives,” as defined in the
CFTC conflict rules are excluded from the definition of “debt security” because they are
subject to a separate federal regulatory regime. PIABA, on the other hand, thought
FINRA should include municipal securities and security-based swaps within the
definition.

December 20, 2012 (“BMO”); and letter from Kevin A. Zambrowicz, Managing
Director, Associate General Counsel, Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated January 4,
2013 (“SIFMA”).

--- PAGE 72 ---

Page 72 of 468
FINRA did not believe it was appropriate to expand the exceptions to the
definition of “debt security” to include agency securities or foreign sovereign debt
securities and did not propose these changes to the definition. FINRA has not provided
these exclusions in the proposed rule change for a variety of reasons. First, commenters
did not provide a rationale to exclude other non-equity securities. Second, treasury
securities are excluded because FINRA is reticent to interfere with the markets involving
direct obligations of the United States. In contrast, FINRA already has reporting schemes
around agency securities and does not think it appropriate to carve out Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac securities, for example. Municipal securities were excluded from the
proposal in part due to FINRA’s jurisdictional limitations with respect to those securities,
so suggestions to exclude other securities as analogous to municipals are misplaced.
FINRA believes an exclusion for foreign sovereign debt of other G-20 countries is
too broad, as the conflicts the rules address are similarly present with respect to research
on such securities, and therefore retail investors would benefit from the proposal’s
protections. Alternatively, commenters asked for greater flexibility with respect to
disclosure of compensation on foreign sovereign issues, in large part due to tracking
difficulties given the many and diverse relationships that firms’ affiliates have with
governments. In response, FINRA amended the proposal to permit firms, in lieu of
disclosing investment banking compensation received by a non-U.S. affiliate from
foreign sovereigns, to instead implement information barriers between that affiliate and
the debt research department to prevent direct or indirect receipt of such information.122
However, the proposed rule change would still require disclosure if the debt research

122
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242. 04 (Disclosure of Compensation Received by
Affiliates).

--- PAGE 73 ---

Page 73 of 468
analyst has actual knowledge of receipt of investment banking compensation by the non-
U.S. affiliate.
As stated in Item 3 above, the proposed rule excludes security-based swaps from
the definition of debt security given the nascent and evolving nature of security-based
swaps regulation. FINRA intends to monitor regulatory developments with respect to
security-based swaps and may determine to later include such securities in the definition
of debt security.
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 proposal defined “debt research report” as any
written (including electronic) communication that includes an analysis of debt securities
and that provides information sufficient upon which to base an investment decision. The
term excluded the same communications excepted from the definition of “research
report” in NASD Rule 2711. Morgan Stanley and SIFMA suggested that the definition
should be amended to conform to the definition of “research report” in Regulation AC,
which defines “research report” as a “written communication . . . that includes an analysis
of a security or issuer . . . .” They further suggested that FINRA should include an
exception from the definition of “research report” similar to interpretive guidance found
in the Commission’s adopting release about the general characteristics of that term as it is
used in Regulation AC for “reports commenting on or analyzing particular types of debt
securities or characteristics of debt securities” that do not include an analysis of, or
recommend or rate individual securities or companies. In response to comments to both
of the Notice Proposals, FINRA agreed that the definition of “debt research report”
should be consistent with the definition in Regulation AC and therefore amended the

--- PAGE 74 ---

Page 74 of 468
proposal to achieve that regulatory harmony, including the exception for reports on
classes of debt securities. This amendment is reflected in the proposed rule change.
In response to a suggestion by BDA to the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal,
FINRA included the exceptions to the definition of “debt research report” in the rule text
rather than by reference to the exceptions in NASD Rule 2711. BDA, BMO, Morgan
Stanley, SIFMA, and Wulff, in response to one or both of the Notice Proposals,
suggested that FINRA should exclude from the definition desk communications,
including trader commentary, if such communications are sent only to institutional
investors. Among other arguments, these commenters asserted that trader commentary is
common in the debt markets, that institutions don’t rely on it as the sole basis for their
investment decisions and that inclusion of trader commentary within the definition of
“debt research report” is unduly burdensome and costly and could reduce available
market information to investors without “commensurate policy returns.” BDA asserted
that the proposal would categorically eliminate an entire segment of analysis for retail
investors without providing evidence that it is a harmful or abusive practice. In response
to Regulatory Notice 12-42, BDA also stated that the definition should exclude offering
documents for unregistered transactions and securities and any document prepared by or
at the request of the issuer or obligor of a security.
FINRA continues to believe it imprudent to create a broad exception from the
definition of “debt research report” based on the author or department of origin. As
explained in Regulatory Notice 12-09, such an approach creates a potential loophole
through which biased and non-transparent research could be disseminated to investors,
including retail investors. FINRA notes that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act declined to adopt

--- PAGE 75 ---

Page 75 of 468
such an approach in the equity context. Furthermore, Regulation AC has no such
exception, so the regulatory consistency that commenters seek would be undermined. If,
as commenters maintain, trader commentary is mostly provided only to institutions, then
the institutional research exemption could exclude these communications from most of
the provisions of the rule that otherwise apply to retail debt research for institutions that
opt in. While FINRA understands that institutions may be more attuned to conflicts,
FINRA believes it appropriate that even institutional debt research should retain certain
minimum standards of independence and transparency, including restrictions on
prepublication review by investment banking and the issuer, prohibitions on promises of
favorable research as an inducement for receipt of business or compensation and general
disclosure alerting recipients of the lesser standards and potential conflicts of interest
attendant to the research report.
FINRA declined BDA’s suggestion to exclude from the definition of “debt
research report” offering documents for unregistered transactions or any document
prepared by or at the request of the issuer or obligor of a security. BDA offered no
rationale for the exclusions, which would be inconsistent with Regulation AC.
Moreover, FINRA believes an exception for any document requested by an issuer would
seriously undermine the regulatory purpose of the proposed rule change because it would
allow a broker-dealer to distribute to retail investors a communication that contains all of
the elements of a debt research report but none of the protections where the issuer, a
conflicted party, requested it be created.

--- PAGE 76 ---

Page 76 of 468
Prepublication Review
The proposed rule change maintains provisions in the Notice Proposals that would
prohibit prepublication review, clearance or approval of debt research reports by
investment banking, principal trading and sales and trading personnel. In response to the
Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal, SIFMA contended that the rule should permit
investment banking and sales and trading to review debt research reports prior to
publication for factual accuracy, subject to appropriate supervision. As an example,
SIFMA cited research on new complex structured products, suggesting analysts need to
verify with investment banking or sales and trading that the basic facts about the products
are correct and to corroborate the accuracy of the analyst’s statements regarding trading
activity, prevailing market prices or yields. SIFMA also pointed out that current NASD
Rule 2711 permits such factual review of research reports by investment banking and
other non-research personnel.
First, FINRA notes that it has proposed to eliminate any prepublication review by
investment banking or other persons not directly responsible for the preparation, content
and distribution of equity research reports, other than legal and compliance personnel.
FINRA believes that review of facts in a report by investment banking and other non-
research personnel is unnecessary in light of the numerous other sources available to
verify factual information, including the subject company. FINRA notes that such review
may invite pressure on a research analyst that could be difficult to monitor. FINRA
further notes that such factual review is not permitted under the terms of the Global

--- PAGE 77 ---

Page 77 of 468
Settlement123 and that FINRA staff has seen no evidence that the factual accuracy of
research produced by Global Settlement firms has suffered. Second, with respect to debt
research, the proposal delineates certain permissible communications between debt
research analysts and sales and trading and principal trading personnel necessary for each
to effectively discharge their responsibilities and facilitate debt market trading. Among
the allowable communications, a debt research analyst may seek information from sales
and trading and principal trading personnel regarding a “particular bond instrument,
current prices, spreads, liquidity and similar market information relevant to the debt
research analyst’s valuation of a particular security.” In light of these permissible
communications, and the other reasons stated above, FINRA sees no compelling reason
why a debt research analyst needs further factual review from sales and trading or
principal trading personnel by sharing portions of a draft research report. FINRA
believes that any incremental improvement in accuracy by permitting factual review by
investment banking, principal trading or sales and trading personnel is outweighed by the
increased risk of pressure on a research analyst and the prospect that the perceived
objectivity of the research may be undermined. Therefore, the proposed rule change does
not incorporate the commenter’s suggestion.
Research Department Budget
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal limited determination of the research
department budget to senior management, other than persons engaged in investment
banking or principal trading activities, and without regard to specific revenues or results
derived from those activities. However, the proposal noted that revenues and results of

123
See Letter from James A. Brigagliano, Assistant Director, SEC Division of
Trading and Markets, to Dana G. Fleischman, Clearly, Gottlieb, Steen &
Hamilton, dated Nov. 2, 2004.

--- PAGE 78 ---

Page 78 of 468
the firm as a whole may be considered in determining the debt research department
budget and allocation of research department expenses. Moreover, the proposal
permitted all persons within the firm to provide senior management input regarding the
demand for and quality of debt research, including product trends and customer interests.
In response to that proposal, SIFMA commented that senior management should
be permitted to consider principal trading and other business revenues in making budget
decisions, else senior management cannot accurately marry research funding to customer
needs. SIFMA further contended that the proposal’s other provisions adequately
safeguard against inappropriate pressures by investment banking and principal trading
with respect to debt research budget determinations. The Regulatory Notice 12-42
Proposal maintained these restrictions on debt research budget input, and in response,
SIFMA again asserted that the provision denies research management the ability to assess
the value of the permissible input by comparing it to the revenues generated from
principal trading activities, thereby resulting in a misallocation of resources. SIFMA
contended that the allocation of the research department’s resources to a particular asset
class “will be and should be influenced by the size and profitability of the respective
market.”
FINRA appreciates the desire of firms to allocate research costs based on the
revenues to which the research department contributes, but also sees a countervailing
investor protection interest in firms managing conflicts between their revenue-producing
operations and research. FINRA believes that the size and allocation of the research
budget should be insulated from pressure by those business segments. In the case of
investment banking, FINRA believes the conflict is too pronounced to allow any

--- PAGE 79 ---

Page 79 of 468
consideration of investment banking revenues in determining the research department
budget. However, given the vast array of debt securities and classes, FINRA believes it
appropriate to allow some consideration of revenue streams in allocating research budget
resources. Therefore, the proposed rule change would permit consideration of those
revenues, provided that: (1) senior management, other than persons engaged in principal
trading or investment banking activities, makes the final research department budget
determination;124 and (2) the member establishes information barriers or other
institutional safeguards to ensure that debt research analysts are insulated from the
review, pressure or oversight by persons engaged in principal trading activities, among
others.125
Debt Research Analyst Evaluation and Compensation
With respect to evaluation and compensation of debt research analysts, the
proposed rule change maintains a provision in the Notice Proposals that would allow
sales and trading personnel, but not persons engaged in principal trading activities, to
provide input to research management into the evaluation of a debt research analyst, so
long as research management makes final determinations on compensation, subject to
review by the compensation committee.
In response to the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal, SIFMA argued that the
proposal was too strict in prohibiting the input of principal trading personnel and
contributions to principal trading activities in determining debt research analyst
compensation. SIFMA asserted that as long as final compensation decisions rest with

124
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(E).
125
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(H).

--- PAGE 80 ---

Page 80 of 468
research management and the compensation committee, FINRA should allow input from
principal trading personnel because those individuals regularly interface with customers
and therefore are a necessary resource for customer feedback on the quality and
productivity of debt research analysts. SIFMA also noted that the provision would
preclude input from persons who wear multiple hats and engage in both sales and
principal trading activities. Finally, SIFMA contended that compensation prohibitions
fail to acknowledge the important role that debt research analysts play in assisting market
making and customer facilitation desks.
In response to Regulatory Notice 12-42, SIFMA reiterated that the provision will
deprive research management of important client feedback to evaluate debt research
analysts’ performance because principal traders are the primary conduit for such
information. According to SIFMA, there are limited means to obtain direct customer
feedback on the quality of research, and reliance on the sales force to provide customer
feedback is inadequate because debt traders can have as much or more interaction with
clients. In addition, SIFMA noted that the CFTC business conduct rules permit
employees of the business trading unit or clearing unit of a swap dealer or major swap
participant to communicate customer feedback, ratings and other indicators of research
analyst performance to research department management.126
While FINRA recognizes that there is some value in input from those engaged in
principal trading activities, FINRA believes such input is outweighed by conflicts that

126
The CFTC rules apply to research on derivatives, which is predominantly an
institutional business. As noted below, the proposed rule change exempts from
the compensation prohibitions institutional debt research. By comparison,
SIFMA asked to allow principal traders to relay customer feedback in connection
with retail debt research.

--- PAGE 81 ---

Page 81 of 468
could provide incentive for principal trading personnel to reward or punish a debt
research analyst with selected feedback based on whether his or her research or trading
ideas benefitted the firm’s trading activities. Conversely, debt research analysts may feel
compelled to produce research and trade ideas to benefit firm or particular customer
positions if their compensation is tied to contributions to principal trading activities.
Moreover, FINRA believes, in part based on discussions with research management
personnel, that input from sales and trading personnel provides an effective proxy for
customer feedback, to the extent such feedback cannot be obtained directly from
customers. Furthermore, FINRA believes that research management should be in a
position to assess the quality of the research it oversees. Finally, to the extent firms
qualify for the limited principal trading exemption in the proposed rule change, dual-
hatted persons engaged in both research and principal trading activities would be able to
provide feedback to research department management.
Given the importance of principal trading operations to the revenues of many
firms, FINRA believes there is increased risk that principal traders could improperly
pressure or influence debt research if they have input into analyst compensation or can
solicit, relay or characterize customer feedback on retail debt research. FINRA believes
this risk, which if manifested could directly impact retail investors, outweighs the benefit
of an additional data point for research management to evaluate the quality of research
produced by analysts they oversee.
BDA stated that FINRA should amend the proposal to clarify that debt research
analyst compensation may be based on the revenues and results of the firm as a whole.
FINRA agrees that a member may consider the overall success of the firm when

--- PAGE 82 ---

Page 82 of 468
determining a debt analyst’s compensation, provided the member complies with the
compensation review and approval requirements. FINRA notes that the proposed rule
change specifies that the revenues and results of the firm as a whole may be considered in
determining the research department budget, including expenses. Since debt analyst
compensation is a research department expense, FINRA does not believe it necessary to
further amend the compensation provisions.
Prohibitions on Interactions with Investment Banking Personnel

The proposed rule change would require members to have written policies and
procedures to prohibit participation in pitches and other solicitations of investment
banking services transactions and participation in road shows and other marketing on
behalf of an issuer related to investment banking services transactions.
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal had a similar provision, but did not limit
the marketing prohibition to investment banking services transactions. SIFMA asked
whether the proposed requirement with respect to road shows was intended to operate
identically with NASD Rule 2711. SIFMA also asked FINRA to clarify that, consistent
with NASD Rule 2711, the prohibition on road shows is only intended to cover road
shows and other marketing related to an investment banking transaction and not non-deal
road shows. FINRA is primarily concerned with marketing by research analysts in
connection with an investment banking services transaction, and therefore FINRA has
added that limitation to the provision in proposed rule change. FINRA notes, however,
that the overarching requirement to have written policies and procedures to manage
conflicts related to the interaction between debt research analysts and, among others,
subject companies would apply to other marketing activity on behalf of an issuer.

--- PAGE 83 ---

Page 83 of 468
FINRA does not believe that merely facilitating a meeting between issuer management
and investors, absent other facts, would constitute marketing on behalf of the issuer.
In response to the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal, SIFMA contended that the
prohibition on joint due diligence conducted with the subject company in the presence of
investment banking personnel was overly restrictive. FINRA has clarified in the
proposed rule change that the prohibition on joint due diligence applies only during the
period prior to the selection by the issuer of the underwriters for the investment banking
services transaction.127 In response to the Regulatory Notice 12-42 Proposal, SIFMA
commented that debt research analysts should be able to passively attend road show
presentations because, unlike equity analysts that frequently have access to issuer
management, the road show is often the only opportunity for a debt research analyst to
view an issuer’s management presentation and evaluate the credibility of management’s
business plan and outlook. SIFMA contended that it is impractical for issuers to meet
separately with debt research analysts and challenging for analysts to call in and listen to
an issuer presentation. SIFMA also noted that the concern is more pronounced in certain
sectors of the debt markets, such as high-yield and emerging markets.
FINRA does not believe that the prohibition with respect to road show
participation should differ between the debt and equity research rules, since the conflicts
are the same. FINRA believes the ability to listen remotely to a road show presentation
provides debt research analysts a reasonable means to hear the issuer management’s
story, while not appearing to be part of the deal team to prospective customers attending
the presentation in person. Therefore, FINRA did not amend this provision of the
proposal.

127
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.09 (Joint Due Diligence).

--- PAGE 84 ---

Page 84 of 468
Prohibitions on Interactions with Sales and Trading
The proposed rule change maintains a provision in the Notice Proposals that
would require members to have written policies and procedures to prohibit certain
interactions between debt research and sales and trading and principal trading personnel.
The proposed rule change also delineates prohibited and permissible communications
between those persons. In response to the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal, SIFMA
asked FINRA to clarify that the prohibition on attempting to influence analysts for the
purpose of benefiting the firm, a customer or class of customers would not capture
ordinary-course communications and is meant to prohibit non-research direction over the
decision to publish a report and non-research direction over the views and opinions
expressed in debt reports. The proposed rule provides that communications between debt
research analysts and trading desk personnel that are not related to sales and trading,
principal trading or debt research activities may take place without restriction, unless
otherwise prohibited.128
SIFMA also recommended that FINRA include in the proposed rule text the
language provided in Regulatory Notice 12-09 that, in assessing whether a debt research
analyst’s permissible communications are “inconsistent” with the analyst’s published
research, firms may consider the context, including that the investment objectives or time
horizons being discussed differ from those underlying the analyst’s published views.
FINRA incorporated the suggested language into proposed FINRA Rule 2242.129

128
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(c).
129
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(b)(3).

--- PAGE 85 ---

Page 85 of 468
ASIR noted that the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal goes beyond NASD Rule
2711 by restricting not only communications between analysts and investment banking,
but also between debt research analysts and sales and trading personnel. ASIR asserted
that the debt research proposal should only restrict communications between research and
investment banking personnel, so as to harmonize with the equity rules.
The proposed rule change specifically addresses communications between debt
research and sales and trading and principal trading personnel because the interests of the
trading department create a particularly pronounced conflict with respect to debt research.
This is because, under current market conditions, principal trading is far more prevalent
in the debt markets than in the equity markets. However, FINRA continues to monitor
the relationship between equity research and sales and trading and principal trading
personnel to assess whether similar specific restrictions should be applied in the equity
research context. FINRA notes that the current and proposed equity research rules do
require firms to manage conflicts between equity research and other non-research
personnel, including those engaged in sales and trading and principal trading activities.
Conflicts Disclosure
With respect to the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal, SIFMA and BDA found
overly broad the provision that requires disclosure of “all conflicts that reasonably could
be expected to influence the objectivity of the research report and that are known or
should have been known by the member or debt research analyst on the date of
publication or distribution of the report.” SIFMA contended that the language would
require firms to identify “all possible conflicts (material or immaterial)” and encouraged
FINRA to either specify the conflicts it intends to capture or rely on the standard in

--- PAGE 86 ---

Page 86 of 468
NASD Rule 2711 requiring disclosure of “actual, material” conflicts. SIMFA further
questioned whether conflicts could ever be expected to influence the objectivity of
research reports and suggested that existing FINRA research rules and Regulation AC
assume the contrary.
In response to SIFMA’s doubt that conflicts could ever be expected to influence
the objectivity of research reports, FINRA notes that its research rules are premised on
the belief that conflicts can be disinfected – and possibly discouraged – by disclosure and
will give investors the material information needed to assess the objectivity of a research
report. In addition, the rules prohibit certain conduct where the conflicts are too
pronounced to be cured by disclosure. Yet the rules do not – and cannot – identify every
such conflict. Thus, at a minimum, FINRA’s proposal would require firms to identify
and disclose them.
In general, FINRA believes that an immaterial conflict could not reasonably be
expected to influence the objectivity of a research report, and therefore a materiality
standard is essentially congruent with the proposed standard. FINRA agrees that the
“catch-all” disclosure provision captures such material conflicts that the research analyst
and persons with the ability to influence the content of a research report know or have
reason to know. Therefore, FINRA has amended the proposal to delete as superfluous
the overarching obligation to disclose “all conflicts that reasonably could be expected to
influence the objectivity of the research report and that are known or should have been
known by the member or research analyst on the date of publication or distribution of the
report.”

--- PAGE 87 ---

Page 87 of 468
SIFMA also contended that the requirement in proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(5)
to disclose information on the date of publication or distribution is broader than current
NASD Rule 2711, which only applies at the time of publication, and problematic
logistically because the broader standard is not reflective of the conflicts that apply at the
time the debt research analyst writes the research report. In addition, SIFMA argues that
it is unclear how members could control and prevent the distribution of reports that have
already been published in order to determine if additional disclosures are required.
FINRA notes that the term “distribution” is drawn from the provisions of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Law that apply to equity research reports and is intended to capture research that
may only be distributed electronically as opposed to published in hard copy. FINRA has
included the same “publication or distribution” language in the proposed changes to the
equity research rules. However, FINRA interprets this language to require the
disclosures to be current only as of the date of first publication or distribution, provided
that the research report is prominently dated, and the disclosures are not known to be
misleading.
The proposed rule text in the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal required firms to
ensure any recommendation or rating has a reasonable basis in fact and is accompanied
by a clear explanation of the valuation method utilized and a fair presentation of the risks
that may impede achievement of the recommendation or rating. SIFMA requested
clarification that the requirement with respect to valuation method should apply only if
the analyst used a “formal” valuation method. FINRA is not clear what constitutes a
“formal” valuation method, but made a clarification in the proposed rule change to

--- PAGE 88 ---

Page 88 of 468
provide that any recommendation or rating must be accompanied by a clear explanation
of “any” (as opposed to “the”) valuation method used.
SIFMA also sought several other clarifications on the proposal. First, it asked
FINRA to clarify that the requirement to include in research reports that contain a rating a
distribution of “all securities rated by the member to which the member would assign a
‘buy,’ ‘hold,’ or ‘sell’ rating” is limited to debt securities. FINRA agrees that the
proposed provision is limited to debt securities and has changed the text accordingly.
Second, SIFMA sought flexibility to make a good faith determination as to which
securities constitute a debt security that must be accompanied by a “ratings table,” given
that bonds of the same issuer may have different ratings. FINRA agrees that any ratings
table should reflect ratings of distinct securities rather than issuers. Finally, SIFMA
requested guidance to distinguish between a “recommendation” and a “rating” for the
purposes of disclosure under the revised proposal. In particular, SIFMA suggested that a
recommendation of a relative value or paired trade idea should constitute a
recommendation but not a rating. While any determination will be fact specific, FINRA
believes in general that a recommendation is a suggestion to make a particular investment
while a rating is a label or conclusion attached to a research report.
SIFMA asked that FINRA allow firms to modify the required “health warning”
disclosure for institutional debt research to refer to “this document” rather than “this
research report” when the material is not prepared by research department personnel.
While FINRA would permit firms to use the word “document” rather than “research
report,” such labeling must be used consistently and would have no bearing on whether
the communication constitutes a “research report” for purposes of the proposed rule.

--- PAGE 89 ---

Page 89 of 468
Third-Party Research Reports
With respect to distribution of third-party debt research reports, SIMFA objected
to requirements in the Notice Proposals that do not currently apply to equity research
under NASD Rule 2711. In particular, SIFMA cited the requirement to establish,
maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that
any third-party debt research report it distributes is “reliable and objective.” SIFMA
stated that it is unclear what FINRA means by “objective.” With respect to the
requirement to disclose “any material conflict of interest that can reasonably expected to
have influenced the choice of a third-party debt research provider or the subject company
of a third-party debt research report,” SIFMA stated that it is “not clear what types of
conflicts this provision is intended to capture.”
FINRA notes that its equity research proposal contains identical requirements
with respect to the selection and distribution of third-party research. FINRA believes it
reasonable to require firms to conduct upfront due diligence on the quality of its third-
party research providers, particularly given the lesser review obligations imposed prior to
distribution. FINRA notes that Global Settlement firms had to have such procedures to
select their independent research providers,130 and FINRA does not believe it
unreasonable to have some type of screening procedures to ensure, for example that the
third-party provider is not being paid by the issuer or that the research has some kind of
track record or good reputation. In fact, in a 2006 comment letter, SIFMA stated that

130
See Letter from James A. Brigagliano, Assistant Director, SEC Division of
Trading and Markets, to Dana G. Fleischman, Clearly, Gottlieb, Steen &
Hamilton, dated Nov. 2, 2004.

--- PAGE 90 ---

Page 90 of 468
firms should “demand high standards” from providers of third-party research.131 FINRA
further believes it appropriate for firms to disclose to investors any relationship, e.g., an
affiliate relationship, or other circumstances that rise to a material conflict of interest that
could reasonably be seen as having influenced the choice of third-party research provider.
FINRA believes this disclosure is consistent with the requirement to disclosure material
conflicts of interest with respect to a firm’s own research, and therefore will similarly
promote objectivity and transparency of information provided to investors that may
influence their investment decisions. FINRA notes that a firm may avoid the requirement
to review third-party research for false or misleading statements if it chooses to distribute
only independent third-party research.132
In response to the Notice Proposals, ASIR commented that the proposal could be
read to impose obligations on members who make available third-party research pursuant
to Section 28(e) of the Exchange Act to have procedures to ensure that such research is
reliable and objective and labeled in a certain manner. FINRA is not proposing to make
any changes based on this comment. However, research made available pursuant to
Section 28(e) is not “distributed” and therefore the proposed requirements would not
apply.
Institutional Investor Definition
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 proposal would have exempted from many of the
rule’s provisions debt research reports disseminated only to “institutional investors,”
provided that those institutional investors had, prior to receipt of a debt research report,

131
See Letter from Michael D. Udoff, SIFMA, to Nancy M. Morris, Secretary, SEC,
dated Nov. 14, 2006.

132
See proposed FINRA Rules 2242(g)(2) and (g)(4).

--- PAGE 91 ---

Page 91 of 468
affirmatively notified the member in writing that they wished to forego treatment as a
retail investor for the purposes of the rule. ASIR, BDA and SIFMA found this provision
unnecessarily burdensome and difficult to implement and track. The commenters noted
that they already expend resources to document similar consents under FINRA’s
suitability rule and that the nature of research distribution makes it more challenging than
the suitability rule to track and process all eligible institutional investors that have
consented to receive institutional debt research. Commenters instead advocated an
approach whereby persons or entities that otherwise meet the definition of “institutional
investor” – as defined in FINRA Rule 4512(c) – are presumed to have consented to the
institutional debt research regime unless they affirmatively choose to receive the
protections afforded recipients of retail debt research. Among other things, these
commenters asserted that this alternative approach would be less costly and burdensome
to administer and that the remaining protections afforded institutional debt research under
the proposal, together with the content standards applicable to institutional
communications pursuant to FINRA’s Communications with the Public rules,133 provide
less sophisticated institutional investors adequate protections should they not to choose
be treated as retail investors for the purposes of debt research.
After considering these comments and discussing the issue further with industry
members, FINRA proposed a revised institutional investor exemption in the Regulatory
Notice 12-42 Proposal. Under the revised proposal, institutional investors that meet the
definition of QIB and satisfy the FINRA Rule 2111 institutional suitability standards with

133
At the time of the comment letters, those content standards were found in NASD
IM-2110-1. Since that time, the Commission has approved a consolidated FINRA
communications with the public rule, and those standards are now found in
FINRA Rule 2210(d).

--- PAGE 92 ---

Page 92 of 468
respect to debt trading and strategies would be eligible to receive institutional debt
research by way of negative consent. Other institutional investors that meet the definition
in FINRA Rule 4512(c) but do not satisfy the higher tier requirements could still
affirmatively elect in writing to receive institutional debt research. The revised proposal
asked whether alternative standards for the higher tier would be more appropriate,
including one that combines the FINRA Rule 4512(c) definition and the institutional
suitability requirements.
CFA Institute supported the revised higher tier of QIB plus suitability standard in
Regulatory Notice 12-42. SIFMA, BDA and BMO opposed it. BDA asserted that all
QIBs should be able to receive research on debt securities without consent since they are
in the business of investing and that an institutional suitability standard should be
imposed to determine whether other institutional accounts may receive institutional debt
research. BMO expressed concern that the proposal to require affirmative consent is
cumbersome and burdensome and would deprive some smaller and mid-size institutional
investors of research they receive today, in part because experience has shown that some
institutional clients cannot or will not provide the affirmation required in FINRA Rule
2111.
SIFMA contended that the proposal had both practical and logical flaws. SIFMA
maintained that the QIB component would introduce a problematic new standard that
would require complex and costly systems to track QIB certifications and link them to
FINRA Rule 2111 certifications and research distribution lists. SIFMA stated that one
firm estimated a cost of $5 million to develop such a system. SIFMA further noted that
suitability certifications are tracked at the order placer level, whereas QIBs are tracked

--- PAGE 93 ---

Page 93 of 468
for particular transactions. SIFMA also asserted that the proposal would lead to
anomalous results, such as the circumstance where a dual registered investment adviser
has multiple institutional accounts, only some of which have QIB certificates. SIFMA
asked how the registered investment adviser could meet its duty to all of its clients but
only utilize the institutional debt research for the QIBs. SIFMA further questioned the
logic of a proposal that would allow institutional investors to transact in restricted
securities but not receive research on those securities without taking additional steps.
SIFMA offered two alternatives for the higher tier: (1) Non-natural persons that
satisfy institutional suitability requirements with respect to debt trading and strategies; or
(2) certain order placing institutions: QIBs; registered broker-dealers, banks, savings and
loans, insurance companies, registered investment companies; registered investment
advisers; institutions with $50-$100 million in assets and represented by an independent
investment adviser; and universities, regulatory and government entities that use research
for academic purposes.
FINRA does not believe that retail investors or less sophisticated institutional
investors should be required to take any additional steps to receive the full protections of
the proposed rule. FINRA believes that some QIBs may lack expertise and experience in
debt market analysis and trading, including some employee benefit plans, trust funds with
participants of employee benefit plans and charitable organizations. For the same
reasons, FINRA believes SIFMA’s first alternative is too broad in that it would require
less sophisticated institutional customers to affirmatively opt-in to the full protections of
the rule. Therefore, the proposed rule change would adopt a standard under which firms
may use negative consent only for the higher standard QIBs that also satisfy the

--- PAGE 94 ---

Page 94 of 468
institutional suitability requirements under FINRA Rule 2111 with respect to debt
transactions, and affirmative consent from any institutional account as defined in FINRA
Rule 4512(c). To avoid a disruption in the receipt of institutional debt research, the
proposed rule change would allow firms to send institutional debt research to any FINRA
Rule 4512(c) account, except a natural person, without affirmative or negative consent
for a period of up to one year after SEC approval while they obtain the necessary
consents. Natural persons that qualify as an institutional account under Rule 4512(c)
must provide affirmative consent to receive institutional debt research during this
transition period and thereafter.
FINRA believes that the proposed institutional investor definition strikes an
appropriate balance between protecting less sophisticated institutional investors and
maintaining the flow of research – and minimizing the burdens and costs of distributing
debt research – to knowledgeable institutional investors. The exemption provides
additional protections beyond the FINRA Rule 4512(c) standard for firms to receive
institutional debt research by negative consent by ensuring that those institutions satisfy
the higher QIB standard and are both capable of evaluating investment risks with respect
to debt trading and strategies and have affirmatively indicated that they are exercising
independent judgment in evaluating recommendations for such transactions. FINRA
believes an affirmative consent requirement is appropriate for FINRA Rule 4512(c)
accounts, which are more likely to include investors lacking experience in debt market
analysis and trading. To the extent a FINRA Rule 4512(c) institutional investor values
institutional debt research, FINRA believes the proposed rule change imposes a one-time
small burden on such investors to provide written consent. Some firms indicated to

--- PAGE 95 ---

Page 95 of 468
FINRA that the consent could be obtained at the time of other required written
authorizations. FINRA believes the one-year grace period will ease the transition to the
new rules without disrupting the current flow of debt research to institutional clients.
As to SIFMA’s second alternative above, FINRA believes it would only
exacerbate SIFMA’s stated concerns about introducing a new standard, as the suggested
standard has no precedent and is even more complex and presumably difficult to track
than the QIB plus suitability standard FINRA proposes to adopt to receive institutional
debt research by negative consent.
SIFMA also commented that even if FINRA adopted its preferred institutional
suitability standard for the higher tier, many firms may not avail themselves of the
exemption because of cost, logistics and obligations to provide their research to retail
customers. Thus, SIFMA asked to narrow the scope of restricted persons by adopting the
following definition of “principal trading” to mean:
Engaging in proprietary trading activities for the trading book of a
member but does not include transactions undertaken as part of
underwriting related, market making related, or hedging activities,
or otherwise on behalf of clients.
FINRA declined to adopt the suggested definition. FINRA believes the definition
is overly broad and ambiguous and could encourage traders to pressure debt research
analysts to support firm inventory positions. For example, the proposed definition would
seem to permit traders of auction rate securities to participate in the determination of
compensation for debt research analysts, thereby sanctioning the type of concerning
conduct that served as a catalyst for rulemaking in this area. For the same reason, FINRA

--- PAGE 96 ---

Page 96 of 468
declines a request by BMO for FINRA to clarify that persons who position debt inventory
to sell on a principal basis to customers but not for a firm’s proprietary trading account
would not be deemed to be engaged in principal trading activities.
SIFMA indicated to FINRA in discussions subsequent to their comment letter that
firms with large institutional client bases were divided on whether the QIB-based
negative consent standard or the FINRA Rule 4512(c) affirmative consent standard
would be preferable from a cost efficiency perspective. The proposed rule change
provides both options, which FINRA believes will help reduce the costs to satisfy the
exemption requirements. The proposed rule change further reduces the costs of
compliance by interpreting the QIB-based alternative to capture both QIBs and any order
placer (e.g. registered investment adviser) that has at least one QIB sub-account. FINRA
believes this interpretation addresses SIFMA’s concern that suitability certifications are
tracked at the order placer level, while QIBs are tracked for particular transactions, as
well as concerns as to how the requirement would apply to a registered investment
adviser with both QIB and non-QIB accounts. FINRA understands that the single $5
million estimate referenced by SIFMA in its letter was based in large part on the cost of
developing a system that could directly link institutional suitability certifications to QIB
sub-accounts and that the interpretation would appreciably reduce the burden.
Limited Investment Banking or Principal Trading Activities Exemptions
The proposed rule change includes an exemption for firms with limited
investment banking activity, which is defined as managing or co-managing 10 or fewer
investment banking services transactions on average per year over the previous three
years and generating $5 million or less in gross investment banking revenues from those

--- PAGE 97 ---

Page 97 of 468
transactions. The proposed rule change also includes an exemption for firms that engage
in limited principal trading activity where, in absolute value on an annual basis, the
member’s trading gains or losses on principal trades in debt securities are $15 million or
less over the previous three years, on average per year, and the member employs fewer
than 10 debt traders.
In response to Regulatory Notice 12-42, CFA opposed both the proposed
exemption for firms with limited investment banking and the proposed exemption for
firms with limited principal debt trading activities because they would allow influences
that could compromise the independence and accuracy of debt research distributed to
retail investors. FINRA did not propose any changes based on CFA’s comments. With
respect to the limited investment banking exemption, FINRA notes that this provision
parallels an exemption in the equity research rules and FINRA has not found any
evidence of abuse by firms subject to the exemption. With respect to the exemption for
limited principal trading activity, FINRA notes that it would be limited to those firms
whose limited trading activity makes the conflicts less pronounced and where it would be
a significant marginal cost to add a trader dedicated to producing research.
In response to Regulatory Notice 12-09, Wulff and Romano expressed concerns
regarding the exemption for firms that engage in limited investment banking activity,
arguing that it did not go far enough to curtail the burden of the proposed rule on small
firms, many of which have associated persons that engage in both producing debt
research and principal trading activities, and that the thresholds were not appropriate for a
proposal regarding debt research conflicts of interest. FINRA subsequently amended the
proposal to add a more targeted exemption for firms with limited principal trading

--- PAGE 98 ---

Page 98 of 468
activity. The exemption, discussed in detail in Item 3, addresses the concerns of small
firms with dual-hatted persons by exempting those firms that engage in modest principal
trading activity from the restrictions on supervision and compensation determination of
debt research analysts by those engaged in sales and trading and principal trading
activities. As noted above, FINRA determined the thresholds for the exemption based on
data analysis and a survey of firms that engage in principal trading activity.
In addition, FINRA maintained the exemption for firms with limited investment
banking activity, exempting eligible firms from similar supervision and compensation
determination restrictions with respect to investment banking personnel. FINRA also
engaged in data analysis, discussed in Item 3, to confirm the appropriateness of the
proposed thresholds for that exemption.
Effective Date
In response to both Regulatory Notices, SIFMA requested that FINRA establish
an effective date that will provide adequate time for implementation of the proposed rule
change, e.g., 12 to 18 months after SEC approval. FINRA notes that it will provide
sufficient time for implementation taking into account any required systems changes.
6.
Extension of Time Period for Commission Action
FINRA does not consent at this time to an extension of the time period for
Commission action specified in Section 19(b)(2) of the Act.134
7.
Basis for Summary Effectiveness Pursuant to Section 19(b)(3) or for
Accelerated Effectiveness Pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) or Section 19(b)(7)(D)

Not applicable.

134
15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2).

--- PAGE 99 ---

Page 99 of 468
8.
Proposed Rule Change Based on Rules of Another Self-Regulatory
Organization or of the Commission

Not applicable.
9.
Security-Based Swap Submissions Filed Pursuant to Section 3C of the Act
Not applicable.
10.
Advance Notices Filed Pursuant to Section 806(e) of the Payment, Clearing
and Settlement Supervision Act

Not applicable.
11.
Exhibits

Exhibit 1. Completed notice of proposed rule change for publication in the
Federal Register.

Exhibit 2a. Regulatory Notice 12-09 (February 2012) and Regulatory Notice 12-
42 (October 2012).
Exhibit 2b. List of commenters to Regulatory Notices 12-09 and 12-42.
Exhibit 2c. Commenter Letters received in response to Regulatory Notices 12-09
and 12-42.
Exhibit 3a. Regulatory Notice 11-11 (March 2011).
Exhibit 3b. Joint Report by NASD and the NYSE on the Operation and
Effectiveness of the Research Analyst Conflict of Interest Rules, December 2005.
Exhibit 5. Text of proposed rule change.

--- PAGE 100 ---
Page 100 of 468

EXHIBIT 1

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34- ; File No. SR-FINRA-2014-048)

Self-Regulatory Organizations; Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.; Notice of
Filing of a Proposed Rule Change to Adopt FINRA Rule 2242 (Debt Research Analysts
and Debt Research Reports)

Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”)1 and
Rule 19b-4 thereunder,2 notice is hereby given that on , Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”) filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”) the proposed rule change as described in Items I,
II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by FINRA. The Commission is
publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested
persons.
I.
Self-Regulatory Organization’s Statement of the Terms of Substance of the
Proposed Rule Change

FINRA is proposing to adopt new FINRA Rule 2242 (Debt Research Analysts
and Debt Research Reports) to address conflicts of interest relating to the publication and
distribution of debt research reports.
The text of the proposed rule change is available on FINRA’s website at
http://www.finra.org, at the principal office of FINRA and at the Commission’s Public
Reference Room.

1
15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).
2
17 CFR 240.19b-4.

--- PAGE 101 ---
Page 101 of 468

II.
Self-Regulatory Organization’s Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis
for, the Proposed Rule Change

In its filing with the Commission, FINRA included statements concerning the
purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it
received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at
the places specified in Item IV below. FINRA has prepared summaries, set forth in
sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements.
A.
Self-Regulatory Organization’s Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory
Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change

1.
Purpose
Background
The proposed rule change would adopt FINRA Rule 2242 to address conflicts of
interest relating to the publication and distribution of debt research reports. Proposed
FINRA Rule 2242 would adopt a tiered approach that, in general, would provide retail
debt research recipients with extensive protections similar to those provided to recipients
of equity research under current and proposed FINRA rules, with modifications to reflect
differences in the trading of debt securities.3
Currently, FINRA’s research rules, NASD Rule 2711 (Research Analysts and
Research Reports) and Incorporated NYSE Rule 472 (Communications with the Public)
(the “equity research rules”), set forth requirements to foster objectivity and transparency
in equity research and provide investors with more reliable and useful information to
make investment decisions. The equity research rules apply only to research reports that

3
The proposed rule change reflects proposed amendments to FINRA’s equity
research rules set forth in a companion filing to the proposed rule change (the
“equity research filing”). See SR-FINRA-2014-047.

--- PAGE 102 ---
Page 102 of 468

include analysis of an “equity security,” as that term is defined under the Exchange Act,4
subject to certain exceptions.5 The equity research rules were intended to restore public
confidence in the objectivity of research and the veracity of research analysts, who are
expected to function as unbiased intermediaries between issuers and the investors who
buy and sell those issuers’ securities.6 The integrity of research had eroded due to the
pervasive influences of investment banking and other conflicts during the market boom
of the late 1990s.
In general, the equity research rules require disclosure of conflicts of interest in
research reports and public appearances by research analysts. The equity research rules
further prohibit conflicted conduct – investment banking personnel involvement in the
content of research reports and determination of analyst compensation, for example –
where the conflicts are too pronounced to be cured by disclosure. Several requirements
in the equity research rules implement provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(“Sarbanes-Oxley”), which mandates separation between research and investment
banking, proscribes conduct that could compromise a research analyst’s objectivity and

4
See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(11).
5
In contrast to FINRA’s current research rules, SEC Regulation Analyst
Certification (“Regulation AC”), the SEC’s primary vehicle to foster objective
and transparent research, applies to both debt and equity research. See 17 CFR
242.500 et seq.
6
NASD Rule 1050 (Registration of Research Analysts) and Incorporated NYSE
Rule 344 (Research Analysts and Supervisory Analysts) require any person
associated with a member and who functions as a research analyst to be registered
as such and pass the Series 86 and 87 exams, unless an exemption applies.
FINRA is considering whether debt research analysts also should be subject to the
same or a similar qualification requirement.

--- PAGE 103 ---
Page 103 of 468

requires specific disclosures in research reports and public appearances.7 The Sarbanes-
Oxley research provisions do not apply to debt research.
In December 2005, in response to a Commission Order, FINRA and NYSE
Regulation, Inc. (“NYSE”) submitted to the Commission a joint report on the operation
and effectiveness of the research analyst conflict of interest rules (the “Joint Report”).8
Among other things, the Joint Report analyzed the impact of the equity research rules
based on academic studies, media reports and commentary. The Joint Report concluded
that the equity research rules have been effective in helping to restore integrity to
research by minimizing the influence of investment banking and promoting transparency
of other potential conflicts of interest. Evidence from academic studies, among other
sources, further suggested that investors are benefiting from more balanced and accurate
research to aid their investment decisions. A January 2012 GAO report on securities
research (“GAO Report”) also concluded that empirical studies suggest the rules have
resulted in increased equity analyst independence and weakened the influence of conflicts
of interest on analyst recommendations.9
The Joint Report also recommended changes to the equity research rules to strike
a better balance between ensuring objective and reliable research on the one hand, and
permitting the flow of information to investors and minimizing costs and burdens to

7
15 U.S.C. 78o-6.

8
Joint Report by NASD and the NYSE on the Operation and Effectiveness of the
Research Analyst Conflict of Interest Rules (December 2005), available at
http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@issues/@rar/documents/industry
/p015803.pdf.
9
United States Government Accountability Office, Securities Research, Additional
Actions Could Improve Regulatory Oversight of Analyst Conflicts of Interest,
January 2012.

--- PAGE 104 ---
Page 104 of 468

members on the other.10 The proposed rule change is informed by FINRA’s experience
with and the effectiveness of the equity research rules and incorporates many of the
findings and recommendations from the Joint Report.
A number of events and circumstances contributed to FINRA’s determination that
a dedicated debt research rule is needed to further investor protection. In 2004, the Bond
Market Association (“BMA”) published its Guiding Principles to Promote the Integrity of
Fixed Income Research (“Guiding Principles”),11 a set of voluntary guidelines intended to
foster management and transparency of conflicts of interest with respect to debt research.
The Guiding Principles acknowledge that potential conflicts of interest could arise in the
preparation of debt research, and many of the principles to maintain integrity of debt
research hew closely to the equity research rule requirements. The Guiding Principles
also reflect what the BMA asserted are several significant differences in the role and
impact of research on the equity and fixed income markets, as well as differences in
research regarding individual fixed-income asset classes. For example, the BMA
contended that the prices of debt securities were less sensitive to the views of research
analysts and that the major rating agencies provided a reliable source of independent
information for the debt markets. It also asserted that most debt research was provided to
sophisticated market participants for which it serves as one of many sources of
information to consider when making an investment decision.

10
The basis for the recommended changes to the equity research rules is described
in more detail in the equity research filing. See supra note 3.
11
In 2005, the BMA merged with the Securities Industry Association (“SIA”) to
form the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”).

--- PAGE 105 ---
Page 105 of 468

The Joint Report discussed the need for rules to govern debt research distribution.
NASD and NYSE indicated that they would examine the extent to which firms
voluntarily adopted the Guiding Principles and would consider further rulemaking after
assessing the effectiveness of voluntary compliance. The Joint Report noted that the anti-
fraud statutes and existing NASD and NYSE broad ethical rules could reach instances of
misconduct involving debt research. NASD and NYSE subsequently surveyed a
selection of firms’ debt research supervisory systems and found many instances where
firms failed to adhere to the Guiding Principles. More significantly, NASD and NYSE
found cases where firms lacked any policies and procedures to manage debt research
conflicts to ensure compliance with applicable ethical and anti-fraud rules. Those
findings were published in Notice to Members 06-36,12 where FINRA expressly noted
that it would continue to consider more definitive rulemaking that might differ from or
expand on the Guiding Principles.13
Following publication of its findings in 2006, FINRA continued to examine
whether firms had implemented and enforced supervisory policies and procedures to
promote the integrity of debt research and address attendant conflicts of interest. As
noted in the GAO Report, between 2005 and 2010, FINRA conducted 55 such
examinations and found deficiencies involving inadequate supervisory procedures to
manage debt research conflicts or failure to disclose such conflicts in 11 (20%)

12
Notice to Members 06-36 (July 2006).
13
As noted in the 2005 report, FINRA believes that the anti-fraud statutes, as well
as existing FINRA rules, such as the requirement in FINRA Rule 2010 (Standards
of Commercial Honor and Principles of Trade) that members, in the conduct of
their business, “observe high standards of commercial honor and just and
equitable principles of trade,” can reach any egregious conduct involving fixed-
income research.

--- PAGE 106 ---
Page 106 of 468

examinations. The GAO Report stated that most market participants and observers that
the GAO interviewed “acknowledged that additional rulemaking is needed to protect
investors, particularly retail investors.” The GAO Report concluded that “until FINRA
adopts a fixed-income research rule, investors continue to face a potential risk.”
Following the consolidation of NASD and the member regulatory functions of
NYSE Regulation, Inc. into FINRA, and as part of the process to develop the
consolidated FINRA rulebook,14 FINRA conducted a comprehensive review of all of its
research rules and considered the appropriateness of adopting a dedicated rule to address
potential conflicts of interest in the publication and distribution of debt research reports.
In addition to its examination findings, and later, the conclusions of the GAO Report,
several other factors also weighed in FINRA’s decision to propose dedicated debt
research conflict of interest rules. Misconduct in the sale of auction rate securities (i.e.,
debt traders pressured research analysts to help prop up the market with optimistic
research) demonstrates that potential conflicts of interest in the publication and
distribution of debt research can exist just as they do for equity research.15 Also, the
reliability of credit agency ratings was called into question during the financial crisis that

14
The current FINRA rulebook includes, in addition to FINRA Rules, (1) NASD
Rules and (2) rules incorporated from NYSE (“Incorporated NYSE Rules”)
(together, the NASD Rules and Incorporated NYSE Rules are referred to as the
“Transitional Rulebook”). While the NASD Rules generally apply to all FINRA
members, the Incorporated NYSE Rules apply only to those members of FINRA
that are also members of the NYSE (“Dual Members”). For more information
about the rulebook consolidation process, see Information Notice, March 12, 2008
(Rulebook Consolidation Process).
15
See e.g., SEC Finalizes ARS Settlements With Bank of America, RBC and
Deutsch Bank, Litigation Release No. 21066, 2009 SEC LEXIS 1799 (June 3,
2009); SEC Finalizes ARS Settlement With Wachovia, Litigation Release No.
20885, 2009 SEC LEXIS 282 (February 5, 2009); SEC Finalizes Settlements
With Citigroup and UBS, Litigation Release No. 20824, 2008 WL 5189517
(December 11, 2008).

--- PAGE 107 ---
Page 107 of 468

began in 2008. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank legislation in response to that crisis has
resulted in rules by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) to govern
conflicts of interest regarding non-security-based swaps and commodities research, and
the SEC has proposed rules that would require security-based swap dealers and major
security-based swap participants to adopt written policies and procedures to address
conflicts related to security-based swaps and research. Based on the foregoing
considerations, and consistent with the regulatory trend to require mitigation and
transparency of conflicts related to all types of investment research, FINRA believes it
necessary and appropriate to provide better protections to recipients of debt research,
particularly less sophisticated investors. FINRA’s belief is buttressed by observations of
retail investment in debt securities. For example, FINRA TRACE data shows that from
2007 through 2013, retail-sized transactions (defined to mean trades with a face value of
less than $100,000) in corporate bonds increased approximately 97 percent to about
16,000 daily trades.
In developing the proposed rule change, FINRA recognized that the debt markets
operate differently from the equity markets in some respects. Several of the differences
were noted by the BMA in the release accompanying the Guiding Principles. For
example, the debt markets feature a number of different asset classes (e.g., corporate,
high yield, mortgage backed and asset-backed) with unique characteristics. Within each
class, there are typically many issues with similar terms, creating a fungibility of
securities that doesn’t exist to the same extent in the equity markets. As the BMA noted,
these securities are often priced in relation to benchmark securities or interest rate
measures, and their prices tend to depend more on interest rate movements and other

--- PAGE 108 ---
Page 108 of 468

macroeconomic factors than issuer fundamentals, although an issuer’s ability to service
its debt remains an important factor. As a result of these dynamics, it is less likely that a
debt research report will influence the price of a subject company’s debt securities than
an equity report will impact the price of that company’s equity securities. Also, while
retail and institutional market participants invest in both equity and debt securities,
relative to the equity markets, the debt markets are dominated by institutional market
participants.
The nature of the debt markets has resulted in several different types of debt
research. There is debt research that focuses on the creditworthiness of an issuer or its
individual debt securities. Debt research reports on individual debt securities may look at
the relative value of those securities compared to similar securities of other issuers.
Some debt research compares debt asset classes or issues within those asset classes. And
in light of the importance of interest rates on the price of debt securities, much of the
research related to debt analyzes macroeconomic factors, monetary policy and economic
events without reference to particular assets classes or securities. While much of this
research is prepared by a dedicated research department, FINRA also understands that
trading desks generate market color, analysis and trading ideas, sometimes known as
“trader commentary,” geared towards institutional customers. FINRA understands from
those participants that they value timely information from the trading desk and
incorporate that information into their own analysis when making an investment decision
about debt securities. As discussed in more detail below, the tiered structure of the
proposed rule change and the definition of “debt research report” are intended to

--- PAGE 109 ---
Page 109 of 468

recognize these different forms of debt research and to accommodate the needs of the
institutional market participants.
In a concept proposal published in Regulatory Notice 11-1116, FINRA first sought
to gather additional information on differences between debt and equity research and the
most appropriate rules to protect recipients of debt research. FINRA subsequently
published two rule proposals in Regulatory Notice 12-09 and Regulatory Notice 12-42,
each refining the previous proposal in response to comments.
The proposed rule change reflects feedback from those proposals and extensive
discussions with industry participants. This proposal is narrowly tailored to achieve the
regulatory objective to foster objectivity and transparency in debt research, particularly
for retail investors, and to provide more reliable and useful information for investors to
make investment decisions.
The proposed rule change adopts a substantial portion of the equity research rules
and their basic framework for debt research distributed to retail investors. The equity
research rules have proven to be effective in mitigating conflicts of interest in the
publication and distribution of equity research.17 Notwithstanding the differences in the
operation of the equity and debt markets noted above, FINRA believes that many of the
conflicts of interest in the publication and distribution of equity research are also present
in debt research. Therefore, FINRA believes it reasonable generally to apply the same
standards to address these conflicts for recipients of debt research reports. Moreover,

16
See Regulatory Notice 11-11 (March 2011), available at
http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@reg/@notice/documents/notices/
p123296.pdf

17
See supra notes 8 and 9.

--- PAGE 110 ---
Page 110 of 468

FINRA believes that both investors and firms’ compliance systems would benefit from
consistency between those rules.
As noted above, the proposed rule change adopts a tiered approach that, in
general, would provide retail debt research recipients with extensive protections similar
to those provided to recipients of equity research under current and proposed FINRA
rules, with modifications to reflect the different nature and trading of debt securities.
Proposed FINRA Rule 2242 would differ from FINRA’s current equity research rules in
three key respects.18 First, the proposed rule change would delineate the prohibited and
permissible communications between debt research analysts and principal trading and
sales and trading personnel. These restrictions take into account the need to ration a debt
research analyst’s resources among the multitude of debt securities, the limitations on
price discovery in the debt markets, and the need for trading personnel to perform credit
risk analyses with respect to current and prospective inventory. Second, the proposed
rule change would exempt debt research provided solely to institutional investors from
many of the structural protections and prescriptive disclosure requirements that apply to
research reports distributed to retail investors. FINRA believes that this tiered approach
is appropriate as it recognizes the needs of institutional market participants who rely on
timely market color, trading strategies and other communications from the trading desk.
Third, in addition to the exemption for limited investment banking activity found in the

18
FINRA notes that the proposed rule change differs from the current equity rules in
some other respects, including not incorporating the quiet periods and restrictions
on pre-IPO share ownership. FINRA believes that the different nature and trading
of debt securities, as discussed in detail above, does not necessitate the restrictions
in the context of debt research. We further note that the quiet periods in the
equity rules are mandated by Sarbanes-Oxley and that FINRA has proposed to
reduce or eliminate those quiet periods, consistent with Sarbanes-Oxley, in the
proposed equity rules.

--- PAGE 111 ---
Page 111 of 468

current and proposed equity research rules, the proposed rule change has a similar
additional exemption for limited principal trading activity. The proposed rule change, in
general, would exempt members that engage in limited investment banking activity or
those with limited principal trading activity and revenues generated from debt trading
from the review, supervision, budget, and compensation provisions in the proposed rule
related to investment banking activity or principal trading activity, respectively.
Like the equity research rules, the proposed rule change is intended to foster
objectivity and transparency in debt research and to provide investors with more reliable
and useful information to make investment decisions. The proposed rule change is set
forth in detail below.
Proposed FINRA Rule 2242
Definitions
The proposed rule change would adopt defined terms for purposes of proposed
FINRA Rule 2242.19 Most of the defined terms closely follow the defined terms for
equity research in NASD Rule 2711, as amended by the equity research filing, with
minor changes to reflect their application to debt research. The proposed definitions are
set forth below.20
Under the proposed rule change, the term “debt research analyst” would mean an
associated person who is primarily responsible for, and any associated person who

19
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a) for all of the proposed defined terms.
20
The proposed rule change also adopts defined terms to implement the tiered
structure of proposed FINRA Rule 2242, including the terms “qualified
institutional buyer” or “QIB,” which is part of the description of an institutional
investor for purposes of the Rule, and “retail investor.” A detailed discussion of
these definitions and the tiered structure of the proposed rule is available at pages
188 through 194.

--- PAGE 112 ---
Page 112 of 468

reports directly or indirectly to a debt research analyst in connection with, the preparation
of the substance of a debt research report, whether or not any such person has the job title
of “research analyst.”21 The term “debt research analyst account” would mean any
account in which a debt research analyst or member of the debt research analyst’s
household has a financial interest, or over which such analyst has discretion or control;
provided, however, it would not include an investment company registered under the
Investment Company Act over which the debt research analyst or a member of the debt
research analyst’s household has discretion or control, provided that the debt research
analyst or member of a debt research analyst’s household has no financial interest in such
investment company, other than a performance or management fee. The term also would
not include a “blind trust” account that is controlled by a person other than the debt
research analyst or member of the debt research analyst’s household where neither the
debt research analyst nor a member of the debt research analyst’s household knows of the
account’s investments or investment transactions.22
The proposed rule change would define the term “debt research report” as any
written (including electronic) communication that includes an analysis of a debt security
or an issuer of a debt security and that provides information reasonably sufficient upon
which to base an investment decision, excluding communications that solely constitute an

21
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(1).

22
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(2). The exclusion for a registered investment
company over which a research analyst has discretion or control in the proposed
definition mirrors proposed changes to the definition of “research analyst
account” in the equity research rules.

--- PAGE 113 ---
Page 113 of 468

equity research report as defined in proposed Rule 2241(a)(11).23 The proposed
definition and exceptions noted below would generally align with the definition of
“research report” in NASD Rule 2711, while incorporating aspects of the Regulation AC
definition of “research report”.24
Communications that constitute statutory prospectuses that are filed as part of the
registration statement would not be included in the definition of a debt research report. In
general, the term debt research report also would not include communications that are
limited to the following, if they do not include an analysis of, or recommend or rate,
individual debt securities or issuers:

discussions of broad-based indices;

commentaries on economic, political or market conditions;

commentaries on or analyses of particular types of debt securities or
characteristics of debt securities;

technical analyses concerning the demand and supply for a sector,
index or industry based on trading volume and price;

23
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(3). The proposed rule change does not
incorporate a proposed exclusion from the equity research rule’s definition of
“research report” of communications concerning open-end registered investment
companies that are not listed or traded on an exchange (“mutual funds”) because
it is not necessary since mutual fund securities are equity securities under Section
3(a)(11) of the Exchange Act and therefore would not be captured by the
proposed definition of “debt research report” in the proposed rule change.

24
In aligning the proposed definition with the Regulation AC definition of research
report, the proposed definition differs in minor respects from the definition of
“research report” in NASD Rule 2711. For example, the proposed definition of
“debt research report” would apply to a communication that includes an analysis
of a debt security or an issuer of a debt security, while the definition of “research
report” in NASD Rule 2711 applies to an analysis of equity securities of
individual companies or industries.

--- PAGE 114 ---
Page 114 of 468


recommendations regarding increasing or decreasing holdings in
particular industries or sectors or types of debt securities; or

notices of ratings or price target changes, provided that the member
simultaneously directs the readers of the notice to the most recent debt
research report on the subject company that includes all current
applicable disclosures required by the rule and that such debt research
report does not contain materially misleading disclosure, including
disclosures that are outdated or no longer applicable.
The term debt research report also, in general, would not include the following
communications, even if they include an analysis of an individual debt security or issuer
and information reasonably sufficient upon which to base an investment decision:

statistical summaries of multiple companies’ financial data, including listings
of current ratings that do not include an analysis of individual companies’
data;

an analysis prepared for a specific person or a limited group of fewer than 15
persons;

periodic reports or other communications prepared for investment company
shareholders or discretionary investment account clients that discuss
individual debt securities in the context of a fund's or account’s past
performance or the basis for previously made discretionary investment
decisions; or

internal communications that are not given to current or prospective
customers.

--- PAGE 115 ---
Page 115 of 468

The proposed rule change would define the term “debt security” as any “security”
as defined in Section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act, except for any “equity security” as
defined in Section 3(a)(11) of the Exchange Act, any “municipal security” as defined in
Section 3(a)(29) of the Exchange Act, any “security-based swap” as defined in Section
3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act, and any “U.S. Treasury Security” as defined in paragraph
(p) of FINRA Rule 6710.25 The proposed definition excludes municipal securities, in
part because of FINRA’s jurisdictional limitations with respect to such securities. The
proposed definition excludes security-based swaps given the nascent and evolving nature
of security-based swap regulation.26 However, FINRA intends to monitor regulatory
developments with respect to security-based swaps and may determine to later include
such securities in the definition of debt security.

25
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(4).

26
The Commission’s rulemaking in the area of security-based swaps, pursuant to
Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
(the “Dodd-Frank Act”), is ongoing. In June 2011, the Commission proposed
rules addressing policies and procedures with respect to research and analysis for
security-based swaps as part of its proposal governing business conduct standards
for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants. See
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 64766 (June 29, 2011), 76 FR 42396 (July
18, 2011) (Business Conduct Standards for Security-Based Swap Dealers and
Major Security-Based Swap Participants). In June 2012, the Commission staff
sought comment on a statement of general policy for the sequencing of
compliance dates for rules applicable to security-based swaps. See Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 67177 (June 11, 2012), 77 FR 35625 (June 14, 2012)
(Statement of General Policy on the Sequencing of the Compliance Dates for
Final Rules Applicable to Security-Based Swaps Adopted Pursuant to the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act). In May 2013, the Commission re-opened comment on
the statement of general policy and on the outstanding rulemaking releases. The
comment period was reopened until July 22, 2013. See Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 69491 (May 1, 2013), 78 FR 30800 (May 23, 2013) (Reopening of
Comment Periods for Certain Proposed Rulemaking Releases and Policy
Statements Applicable to Security-Based Swaps).

--- PAGE 116 ---
Page 116 of 468

The proposed rule change would define the term “debt trader” as a person, with
respect to transactions in debt securities, who is engaged in proprietary trading or the
execution of transactions on an agency basis.27
The proposed rule change would provide that the term “independent third-party
debt research report” means a third-party debt research report, in respect of which the
person producing the report: (1) has no affiliation or business or contractual relationship
with the distributing member or that member’s affiliates that is reasonably likely to
inform the content of its research reports; and (2) makes content determinations without
any input from the distributing member or that member’s affiliates.28
The proposed rule change would define the term “investment banking
department” as any department or division, whether or not identified as such, that
performs any investment banking service on behalf of a member.29 The term “investment
banking services” would include, without limitation, acting as an underwriter,
participating in a selling group in an offering for the issuer or otherwise acting in
furtherance of a public offering of the issuer; acting as a financial adviser in a merger or
acquisition; providing venture capital or equity lines of credit or serving as placement
agent for the issuer or otherwise acting in furtherance of a private offering of the issuer.30

27
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(5).

28
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(6).

29
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(8).

30
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(9). The current definition in NASD Rule
2711 includes, without limitation, many common types of investment banking
services. The proposed rule change and the equity research filing propose to add
the language “or otherwise acting in furtherance of” either a public or private

--- PAGE 117 ---
Page 117 of 468

The proposed rule change would define the term “member of a debt research
analyst’s household” as any individual whose principal residence is the same as the debt
research analyst’s principal residence.31 This term would not include an unrelated person
who shares the same residence as a debt research analyst, provided that the debt research
analyst and unrelated person are financially independent of one another.
The proposed rule change would define “public appearance” as any participation
in a conference call, seminar, forum (including an interactive electronic forum) or other
public speaking activity before 15 or more persons or before one or more representatives
of the media, a radio, television or print media interview, or the writing of a print media
article, in which a debt research analyst makes a recommendation or offers an opinion
concerning a debt security or an issuer of a debt security.32 This term shall not include a
password protected webcast, conference call or similar event with 15 or more existing
customers, provided that all of the event participants previously received the most current
debt research report or other documentation that contains the required applicable
disclosures, and that the debt research analyst appearing at the event corrects and updates
during the event any disclosures in the debt research report that are inaccurate,
misleading or no longer applicable.

offering to further emphasize that the term “investment banking services” is
meant to be construed broadly.

31
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(10).

32
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(11).

--- PAGE 118 ---
Page 118 of 468

Under the proposed rule change the term “qualified institutional buyer” has the
same meaning as under Rule 144A of the Securities Act.33
The proposed rule change would define “research department” as any department
or division, whether or not identified as such, that is principally responsible for preparing
the substance of a debt research report on behalf of a member.34 The proposed rule
change would define the term “subject company” as the company whose debt securities
are the subject of a debt research report or a public appearance.35 Finally, the proposed
rule change would define the term “third-party debt research report” as a debt research
report that is produced by a person or entity other than the member.36
Identifying and Managing Conflicts of Interest
Similar to the proposed equity research rules, the proposed rule change contains
an overarching provision that would require members to establish, maintain and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and effectively manage
conflicts of interest related to the preparation, content and distribution of debt research
reports, public appearances by debt research analysts, and the interaction between debt
research analysts and persons outside of the research department, including investment
banking, sales and trading and principal trading personnel, subject companies and
customers.37 The proposed rule change then sets forth minimum requirements for those

33
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(12).

34
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(14).

35
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(15).

36
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(16).

37
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(1).

--- PAGE 119 ---
Page 119 of 468

written policies and procedures. These provisions set out the fundamental obligation for
a member to establish and maintain a system to identify and mitigate conflicts to foster
integrity and fairness in its debt research products and services. The provisions are also
intended to require firms to be more proactive in identifying and managing conflicts as
new research products, affiliations and distribution methods emerge. This approach
allows for some flexibility to manage identified conflicts, with some specified
prohibitions and restrictions where disclosure does not adequately mitigate them. Most
of the minimum requirements have been experience tested and found effective in the
equity research rules.
In general, the proposed rule change adopts, with slight modifications, the
structural safeguards that the Joint Report found effective to promote analyst
independence and objective research in the equity research rules, but in the form of
mandated policies and procedures with some baseline proscriptions.38 FINRA believes
this approach will impose less cost than a pure prescriptive approach by requiring
members to adopt a compliance system that aligns with their particular structure, business
model and philosophy. FINRA notes that the approach is consistent with FINRA’s

38
Among the structural safeguards, FINRA believes separation between investment
banking and debt research, and between sales and trading and principal trading
and debt research, is of particular importance. As such, while the proposed rule
change does not mandate physical separation between the debt research
department and the investment banking, sales and trading and principal trading
departments (or other person who might seek to influence research analysts),
FINRA would expect such physical separation except in extraordinary
circumstances where the costs are unreasonable due to a firm’s size and resource
limitations. In those instances, a firm must implement written policies and
procedures, including information barriers, to effectively achieve and monitor
separation between debt research and investment banking, sales and trading and
principal trading personnel.

--- PAGE 120 ---
Page 120 of 468

general supervision rule, which similarly provides firms flexibility to establish and
maintain supervisory programs best suited to their business models, reasonably designed
to achieve compliance with applicable federal securities law and regulations and FINRA
rules.39 The proposed rule change introduces a distinction between sales and trading
personnel—institutional sales representatives and sales traders—and persons engaged in
principal trading activities, where the conflicts addressed by the proposal are of most
concern.
Specifically, members must implement written policies and procedures reasonably
designed to promote objective and reliable debt research that reflects the truly held
opinions of debt research analysts and to prevent the use of debt research reports or debt
research analysts to manipulate or condition the market or favor the interests of the firm
or current or prospective customers or class of customers.40 Such policies and procedures
must, at a minimum, address the following.
Prepublication Review

39
See NASD Rule 3010, recently adopted with changes as a consolidated FINRA
rule by Securities Exchange Act Release No. 71179 (December 23, 2013), 78 FR
79542 (December 30, 2013) (Order Approving File No. SR-FINRA-2013-025).
The consolidated rule becomes effective December 1, 2014. FINRA notes that
the policies and procedures approach is consistent with the effective practices
highlighted by FINRA in its Report on Conflicts of Interest, among them that
firms should implement a robust conflicts management framework that includes
structures, processes and policies to identify and manage conflicts of interest. See
Report on Conflicts of Interest, FINRA (October 2013) at 5, available at
http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@reg/@guide/documents/industry
/p359971.pdf. The proposed changes also help to harmonize with approaches in
international jurisdictions, such as the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority in
the United Kingdom. See COBS 12.2.5 R, The Financial Conduct Authority
Handbook, available at http://fshandbook.info/FS/html/handbook/COBS/12/2.

40
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2).

--- PAGE 121 ---
Page 121 of 468

The required policies and procedures must, at a minimum, be reasonably designed
to prohibit prepublication review, clearance or approval of debt research by persons
involved in investment banking, sales and trading or principal trading, and either restrict
or prohibit such review, clearance and approval by other non-research personnel other
than legal and compliance.41 The policies and procedures also must prohibit
prepublication review of a debt research report by a subject company, other than for
verification of facts.42 Similar provisions in the equity rules have proven effective to
ensure independence of the research department, and FINRA believes that the objectivity
of debt research could be compromised to the extent conflicted persons, e.g., those
involved in investment banking and trading activities, have an opportunity to review and
comment on the content of a debt research report. The proposed rule change would allow
limited review by the subject company because it is sometimes in a unique position to
verify facts; otherwise, FINRA believes research analysts should confirm that purported
facts are based on other reliable information. The proposed rule change allows sections
of a draft debt research report to be provided to non-investment banking personnel, non-
principal trading personnel, non-sales and trading personnel or to the subject company for
factual review, so long as: (a) the sections of the draft debt research report submitted do

41
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(A) and (B). Thus, a firm must specify in
its policies and procedures the circumstances, if any, where prepublication review
would be permitted as necessary and appropriate pursuant to proposed FINRA
Rule 2242(b)(2)(B); for example, where non-research personnel are best situated
to verify select facts or where administrative personnel review for formatting.
FINRA notes that members still would be subject to the overarching requirement
to have policies and procedures reasonably designed to effectively manage
conflicts of interest between research analysts and those outside of the research
department. See also proposed FINRA Rule 2242.05 (Submission of Sections of
a Draft Research Report for Factual Review).

42
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(N).

--- PAGE 122 ---
Page 122 of 468

not contain the research summary, recommendation or rating; (b) a complete draft of the
debt research report is provided to legal or compliance personnel before sections of the
report are submitted to non-investment banking personnel, non-principal trading
personnel, non-sales and trading personnel or the subject company; and (c) if, after
submitting sections of the draft debt research report to non-investment banking personnel,
non-principal trading personnel, non-sales and trading personnel or the subject company,
the research department intends to change the proposed rating or recommendation, it
must first provide written justification to, and receive written authorization from, legal or
compliance personnel for the change. The member must retain copies of any draft and
the final version of such debt research report for three years after publication. 43
Coverage Decisions
With respect to coverage decisions, a member’s written policies and procedures
must restrict or limit input by investment banking, sales and trading and principal trading
personnel to ensure that research management independently makes all final decisions
regarding the research coverage plan.44 However, as discussed below, the provision does
not preclude personnel from these or any other department from conveying customer
interests and coverage needs, so long as final decisions regarding the coverage plan are
made by research management. FINRA believes this provision strikes an appropriate
balance by allowing input of customer interests in determining the allocation of limited
research resources to a wide range of debt securities, while preserving the final decisions
for research management.

43
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.05 (Submission of Sections of a Draft Research
Report for Factual Review).
44
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(C).

--- PAGE 123 ---
Page 123 of 468

Solicitation and Marketing of Investment Banking Transactions
A member’s written policies and procedures also must, at a minimum, restrict or
limit activities by debt research analysts that can reasonably be expected to compromise
their objectivity.45 This includes prohibiting participation in pitches and other
solicitations of investment banking services transactions and road shows and other
marketing on behalf of issuers related to such transactions. The proposed rule change
adopts Supplementary Material that incorporates an existing FINRA interpretation for the
equity research rules that prohibits in pitch materials any information about a member’s
debt research capacity in a manner that suggests, directly or indirectly, that the member
might provide favorable debt research coverage.46 By way of example, the
Supplementary Material explains that FINRA would consider the publication in a pitch
book or related materials of an analyst’s industry ranking to imply the potential outcome
of future research because of the manner in which such rankings are compiled. The
Supplementary Material further notes that a member would be permitted to include in the
pitch materials the fact of coverage and the name of the debt research analyst, since that
information alone does not imply favorable coverage. FINRA notes that, consistent with
existing guidance on the equity research rules, debt research analysts may listen to or
view a live webcast of a transaction-related road show or other widely attended

45
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(L).

46
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.01 (Efforts to Solicit Investment Banking
Business).

--- PAGE 124 ---
Page 124 of 468

presentation by investment banking to investors or the sales force from a remote location,
or another room if they are in the same location.47
The proposed rule change also would prohibit investment banking personnel from
directing debt research analysts to engage in sales or marketing efforts related to an
investment banking services transaction or any communication with a current or
prospective customer about an investment banking services transaction.48 In addition, the
proposed rule change adopts Supplementary Material to provide that, consistent with this
requirement, no debt research analyst may engage in any communication with a current
or prospective customer in the presence of investment banking department personnel or
company management about an investment banking services transaction.49 FINRA
believes that the presence of investment bankers or issuer management could
compromise a debt research analyst’s candor when talking to a current or prospective
customer about a deal.
FINRA believes that the role of any research analyst, debt or equity, is to provide
unbiased analysis of issuers and their securities for the benefit of investors, not to help
win business for their firms or market transactions on behalf of issuers. FINRA believes
the prohibitions in these provisions, which have been a cornerstone of the equity research
rules, are equally important to mitigate significant conflicts between investment banking
and debt research analysts.

47
See NASD Notice to Members 07-04 (January 2007) and NYSE Information
Memo 07-11 (January 2007).

48
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(M).

49
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.02(a) (Restrictions on Communications with
Customers and Internal Personnel).

--- PAGE 125 ---
Page 125 of 468

Supervision
A member’s written policies and procedures must limit the supervision of debt
research analysts to persons not engaged in investment banking, sales and trading or
principal trading activities.50 In addition, they further must establish information barriers
or other institutional safeguards to ensure that debt research analysts are insulated from
the review, pressure or oversight by persons engaged in investment banking services,
principal trading or sales and trading activities or others who might be biased in their
judgment or supervision.51
The requirement for information barriers or other institutional safeguards to
insulate research analysts from pressure is taken from Sarbanes-Oxley, which applies
only to research reports on equity securities. FINRA believes this provision has equal
application to debt research reports and that firms must not allow supervision or influence
by anyone in the firm outside of the research department whose interests may be at odds
with producing objective research. FINRA believes that independence for debt research
analysts requires effective separation from those whose economic interests may be in
conflict with the content of debt research. The proposed rule change furthers that
separation by prohibiting oversight of debt research analysts by those involved in
investment banking or trading activities.
Budget and Compensation

50
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(D). The provision is substantively the
same as current NASD Rule 2711(b)(1), a core structural separation requirement
in the equity research rules that FINRA believes is essential to safeguarding
analyst objectivity.

51
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(H).

--- PAGE 126 ---
Page 126 of 468

A member’s written policies and procedures also must limit the determination of a
firm’s debt research department budget to senior management, excluding senior
management engaged in investment banking or principal trading activities, and without
regard to specific revenues or results derived from investment banking.52 However, the
proposed rule change would expressly permit all persons to provide input to senior
management regarding the demand for and quality of debt research, including product
trends and customer interests. It further would allow consideration by senior
management of a firm’s overall revenues and results in determining the debt research
budget and allocation of expenses. FINRA believes the budget provisions strike a
reasonable balance by prohibiting final budget determinations by those persons most
conflicted, but allowing input from all persons and consideration of revenues other than
investment banking to best allocate scarce budget resources.
With respect to compensation determinations, a member’s written policies and
procedures must prohibit compensation based on specific investment banking services or
trading transactions or contributions to a firm’s investment banking or principal trading
activities and prohibit investment banking and principal trading personnel from input into
the compensation of debt research analysts.53 Further, the firm’s written policies and
procedures must require that the compensation of a debt research analyst who is primarily
responsible for the substance of a research report be reviewed and approved at least
annually by a committee that reports to a member’s board of directors or, if the member

52
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(E).

53
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(D) and (F).

--- PAGE 127 ---
Page 127 of 468

has no board of directors, a senior executive officer of the member.54 This committee
may not have representation from investment banking personnel or persons engaged in
principal trading activities and must consider the following factors when reviewing a debt
research analyst’s compensation, if applicable: the debt research analyst’s individual
performance, including the analyst’s productivity and the quality of the debt research
analyst’s research; and the overall ratings received from customers and peers
(independent of the member’s investment banking department and persons engaged in
principal trading activities) and other independent ratings services.
Neither investment banking personnel nor persons engaged in principal trading
activities may give input with respect to the compensation determination for debt
research analysts. However, sales and trading personnel may give input to debt research
management as part of the evaluation process in order to convey customer feedback,
provided that final compensation determinations are made by research management,
subject to review and approval by the compensation committee.55 The committee, which
may not have representation from investment banking or persons engaged in principal
trading activities, must document the basis for each debt research analyst’s compensation,
including any input from sales and trading personnel.
The compensation provisions are similar to those that have proven effective in the
equity research rules. However, the separation extends to not only investment banking,
but also those engaged in principal trading activities, because such persons have the most
pronounced conflict with respect to debt research. FINRA believes that the

54
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(G).

55
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(D) and (G).

--- PAGE 128 ---
Page 128 of 468

compensation determination is a key source of influence on the content of debt research
reports and therefore it is important to require both separation from those who might
influence research analysts and consideration of the quality of the research produced in
making that determination.
Personal Trading Restrictions
Under the proposed rule change, a member’s written policies and procedures must
restrict or limit trading by a “debt research analyst account” in securities, derivatives and
funds whose performance is materially dependent upon the performance of securities
covered by the debt research analyst.56 The procedures must ensure that those accounts,
supervisors of debt research analysts and associated persons with the ability to influence
the content of debt research reports do not benefit in their trading from knowledge of the
content or timing of debt research reports before the intended recipients of such research
have had a reasonable opportunity to act on the information in the report.57 Furthermore,
the procedures must generally prohibit a debt research analyst account from purchasing
or selling any security or any option or derivative of such security in a manner
inconsistent with the debt research analyst’s most recently published recommendation,
except that they may define circumstances of financial hardship (e.g., unanticipated
significant change in the personal financial circumstances of the beneficial owner of the
research analyst account) in which the firm will permit trading contrary to that

56
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(J).

57
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.07 (Ability to Influence the Content of a
Research Report) would provide that for the purposes of the rule, an associated
person with the ability to influence the content of a debt research report is an
associated person who, in the ordinary course of that person’s duties, has the
authority to review the debt research report and change that debt research report
prior to publication or distribution.

--- PAGE 129 ---
Page 129 of 468

recommendation. In determining whether a particular trade is contrary to an existing
recommendation, firms may take into account the context of a given trade, including the
extent of coverage of the subject security. While the proposed rule change does not
include a recordkeeping requirement, FINRA expects members to evidence compliance
with their policies and procedures and retain any related documentation in accordance
with FINRA Rule 4511.
The proposed rule change includes Supplementary Material .10, which provides
that FINRA would not consider a research analyst account to have traded in a manner
inconsistent with a research analyst’s recommendation where a member has instituted a
policy that prohibits any research analyst from holding securities, or options on or
derivatives of such securities, of the companies in the research analyst’s coverage
universe, provided that the member establishes a reasonable plan to liquidate such
holdings consistent with the principles in paragraph (b)(2)(J)(i) and such plan is approved
by the member’s legal or compliance department.58 This provision is intended to provide
a mechanism by which a firm’s analysts can divest their holdings to comply with a more
restrictive personal trading policy without violating the trading against recommendation
provision in circumstances where an analyst has, for example, a “buy” rating on a subject
company or debt security.
FINRA believes these provisions will protect investors by prohibiting research
analysts and those with an ability to influence the content of research reports, such as
supervisors, from trading ahead of their customers based on knowledge that may move
the market once made public. FINRA further believes the provisions, in general, will

58
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.10.

--- PAGE 130 ---
Page 130 of 468

promote objective research by requiring consistency between personal trading by
research analysts and recommendations to customers.
Retaliation and Promises of Favorable Research
A member’s written policies and procedures must prohibit direct or indirect
retaliation or threat of retaliation against debt research analysts by any employee of the
firm for publishing research or making a public appearance that may adversely affect the
member’s current or prospective business interests.59 FINRA believes it is essential to a
research analyst’s independence and objectivity that no person employed by the member
that is in a position to retaliate or threaten to retaliate should be permitted to do so based
on the content of a research report or public appearance. The policies and procedures
also must prohibit explicit or implicit promises of favorable debt research, specific
research content or a specific rating or recommendation as inducement for the receipt of
business or compensation.60 This provision is also key to preserving the integrity of debt
research and the independence of debt research analysts, who otherwise may feel
pressure to tailor the content of debt research to the business interests of the firm.
Joint Due Diligence with Investment Banking Personnel
The proposed rule change establishes a proscription with respect to joint due
diligence activities – i.e., due diligence by the debt research analyst in the presence of
investment banking department personnel – during a specified time period. Specifically,

59
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(I). This provision is not intended to limit a
member’s authority to discipline or terminate a debt research analyst, in
accordance with the member’s written policies and procedures, for any cause
other than writing an adverse, negative, or otherwise unfavorable research report
or for making similar comments during a public appearance.

60
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(K).

--- PAGE 131 ---
Page 131 of 468

the proposed rule change states that FINRA interprets the overarching principle requiring
members to, among other things, establish, maintain and enforce written policies and
procedures that address the interaction between debt research analysts, banking and
subject companies,61 to prohibit the performance of joint due diligence prior to the
selection of underwriters for the investment banking services transaction.62 FINRA
understands that in some instances, due diligence activities take place even before an
issuer has awarded the mandate to manage or co-manage an offering. There is
heightened risk in those circumstances that investment bankers may pressure analysts to
produce favorable research that may bolster the firm’s bid to become an underwriter for
the offering. Once the mandate has been awarded, FINRA believes joint due diligence
may take place in accordance with appropriate written policies and procedures to guard
against interactions to further the interests of the investment banking department. At that
time, FINRA believes that the efficiencies of joint due diligence outweigh the risk of
pressure on debt research analysts by investment banking.
Communications Between Debt Research Analysts and Trading Personnel
The proposed rule change delineates the prohibited and permissible interactions
between debt research analysts and sales and trading and principal trading personnel.
The proposed rule change would require members to establish, maintain and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prohibit sales and trading and
principal trading personnel from attempting to influence a debt research analyst’s
opinions or views for the purpose of benefiting the trading position of the firm, a

61
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(1)(C).

62
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.09 (Joint Due Diligence).

--- PAGE 132 ---
Page 132 of 468

customer or a class of customers.63 It would further prohibit debt research analysts from
identifying or recommending specific potential trading transactions to sales and trading
or principal trading personnel that are inconsistent with such debt research analyst’s
currently published debt research reports or from disclosing the timing of, or material
investment conclusions in, a pending debt research report.64 The communications
prohibited under the proposed rule change are intended to prevent undue influence on
debt research analysts to generate or conform research to a firm’s proprietary trading
interests or those of particular customers. FINRA believes that these prohibitions are
necessary to mitigate a significant conflict between firms and their customers.
However, FINRA understands that certain communications between debt research
analysts and trading desk personnel are essential to the discharge of their functions, e.g.,
debt research analysts need to obtain from trading personnel information relevant to a
valuation analysis and trading personnel need to obtain from debt research analysts
information regarding the creditworthiness of an issuer. These departments also must
communicate regarding coverage decisions, given the large number of debt instruments.
Therefore, the proposed rule change would permit sales and trading and principal
trading personnel to communicate customers’ interests to a debt research analyst, so long
as the debt research analyst does not respond by publishing debt research for the purpose
of benefiting the trading position of the firm, a customer or a class of customers.65 In

63
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(a)(1) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).
64
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(a)(2) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).
65
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(b)(1) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).

--- PAGE 133 ---
Page 133 of 468

addition, debt research analysts may provide customized analysis, recommendations or
trade ideas to sales and trading and principal trading personnel and customers, provided
that any such communications are not inconsistent with the analyst’s currently published
or pending debt research, and that any subsequently published debt research is not for the
purpose of benefiting the trading position of the firm, a customer or a class of
customers.66
The proposed rule change also would permit sales and trading and principal
trading personnel to seek the views of debt research analysts regarding the
creditworthiness of the issuer of a debt security and other information regarding an issuer
of a debt security that is reasonably related to the price or performance of the debt
security, so long as, with respect to any covered issuer, such information is consistent
with the debt research analyst’s published debt research report and consistent in nature
with the types of communications that a debt research analyst might have with customers.
In determining what is consistent with the debt research analyst’s published debt
research, a member may consider the context, including that the investment objectives or
time horizons being discussed differ from those underlying the debt research analyst’s
published views.67 Finally, debt research analysts may seek information from sales and
trading and principal trading personnel regarding a particular debt instrument, current

66
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(b)(2) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).
67
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(b)(3) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).

--- PAGE 134 ---
Page 134 of 468

prices, spreads, liquidity and similar market information relevant to the debt research
analyst’s valuation of a particular debt security.68
The proposed rule change clarifies that communications between debt research
analysts and sales and trading or principal trading personnel that are not related to sales
and trading, principal trading or debt research activities may take place without
restriction, unless otherwise prohibited.69
Restrictions on Communications with Customers and Internal Sales Personnel
The proposed rule change would apply standards to communications with
customers and internal sales personnel. Any written or oral communication by a debt
research analyst with a current or prospective customer or internal personnel related to an
investment banking services transaction must be fair, balanced and not misleading, taking
into consideration the overall context in which the communication is made.70
Consistent with the prohibition on investment banking department personnel
directly or indirectly directing a debt research analyst to engage in sales or marketing
efforts related to an investment banking services transaction or directing a debt research
analyst to engage in any communication with a current or prospective customer about an
investment banking services transaction, no debt research analyst may engage in any
communication with a current or prospective customer in the presence of investment
banking department personnel or company management about an investment banking

68
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(b)(4) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).
69
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(c) (Information Barriers between Research
Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel).
70
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.02(b) (Restrictions on Communications with
Customers and Internal Personnel).

--- PAGE 135 ---
Page 135 of 468

services transaction. These provisions are intended to allow debt research analysts to
educate investors and internal sales personnel about an investment banking transaction in
fair and balanced manner, in a setting that promotes candor by the debt research analyst.71
Content and Disclosure in Debt Research Reports
The proposed rule change would, in general, adopt the disclosures in the equity
research rule for debt research, with modifications to reflect the different characteristics
of the debt market. As discussed above, the equity research rules are designed to provide
investors with useful information on which to base their investment decisions. FINRA
believes retail debt investors would benefit from similar disclosures applied to debt
research reports. In addition, FINRA understands from industry participants that
members have systems in place to track the disclosures required under the equity research
rules that can be leveraged to meet the debt research disclosure requirements in the
proposed rule change.
The proposed rule change would require members to establish, maintain and
enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that purported
facts in their debt research reports are based on reliable information.72 FINRA has
included this provision because it believes members should have policies and procedures
to foster verification of facts and trustworthy research on which investors may rely. In
addition, the policies and procedures must be reasonably designed to ensure that any
recommendation or rating has a reasonable basis and is accompanied by a clear
explanation of any valuation method used and a fair presentation of the risks that may

71
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.02(a) (Restrictions on Communications with
Customers and Internal Personnel).
72
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(1)(A).

--- PAGE 136 ---
Page 136 of 468

impede achievement of the recommendation or rating.73 While there is no obligation to
employ a rating system under the proposed rule, members that choose to employ a rating
system must clearly define in each debt research report the meaning of each rating in the
system, including the time horizon and any benchmarks on which a rating is based. In
addition, the definition of each rating must be consistent with its plain meaning.74
Consistent with the equity rules, irrespective of the rating system a member
employs, a member must disclose, in each debt research report that includes a rating, the
percentage of all debt securities rated by the member to which the member would assign
a “buy,” “hold” or “sell” rating.75 In addition, a member must disclose in each debt
research report the percentage of subject companies within each of the “buy,” “hold” and
“sell” categories for which the member has provided investment banking services within
the previous 12 months.76 All such information must be current as of the end of the most
recent calendar quarter or the second most recent calendar quarter if the publication date
of the debt research report is less than 15 calendar days after the most recent calendar
quarter.77
If a debt research report contains a rating for a subject company’s debt security
and the member has assigned a rating to such debt security for at least one year, the debt
research report must show each date on which a member has assigned a rating to the debt

73
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(1)(B).
74
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(2).
75
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(2)(A).
76
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(2)(B).
77
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(2)(C).

--- PAGE 137 ---
Page 137 of 468

security and the rating assigned on such date. This information would be required for the
period that the member has assigned any rating to the debt security or for a three-year
period, whichever is shorter.78 Unlike the equity research rules, the proposed rule change
does not require those ratings to be plotted on a price chart because of limits on price
transparency, including daily closing price information, with respect to many debt
securities.
The proposed rule change would require79 a member to disclose in any debt
research report at the time of publication or distribution of the report:
 if the debt research analyst or a member of the debt research analyst’s
household has a financial interest in the debt or equity securities of the subject
company (including, without limitation, any option, right, warrant, future,
long or short position), and the nature of such interest;
 if the debt research analyst has received compensation based upon (among
other factors) the member’s investment banking, sales and trading or principal
trading revenues;
 if the member or any of its affiliates: managed or co-managed a public
offering of securities for the subject company in the past 12 months; received
compensation for investment banking services from the subject company in
the past 12 months; or expects to receive or intends to seek compensation for
investment banking services from the subject company in the next three
months;

78
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(3).
79
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(4).

--- PAGE 138 ---
Page 138 of 468

 if, as of the end of the month immediately preceding the date of publication or
distribution of a debt research report (or the end of the second most recent
month if the publication date is less than 30 calendar days after the end of the
most recent month), the member or its affiliates have received from the
subject company any compensation for products or services other than
investment banking services in the previous 12 months;80
 if the subject company is, or over the 12-month period preceding the date of
publication or distribution of the debt research report has been, a client of the
member, and if so, the types of services provided to the issuer. Such services,
if applicable, shall be identified as either investment banking services, non-
investment banking securities-related services or non-securities services;
 if the member trades or may trade as principal in the debt securities (or in
related derivatives) that are the subject of the debt research report;81
 if the debt research analyst received any compensation from the subject
company in the previous 12 months; and
 any other material conflict of interest of the debt research analyst or member
that the debt research analyst or an associated person of the member with the
ability to influence the content of a debt research report knows or has reason

80
See also discussion of proposed FINRA Rule 2242.04 (Disclosure of
Compensation Received by Affiliates) below.
81
This provision is analogous to the equity research rule requirement to disclose
market making activity.

--- PAGE 139 ---
Page 139 of 468

to know at the time of the publication or distribution of a debt research
report.82
The proposed rule change would incorporate a proposed amendment to the
corresponding provision in the equity research rules that expands the existing “catch all”
disclosure to require disclosure of material conflicts known not only by the research
analyst, but also by any “associated person of the member with the ability to influence the
content of a research report.” In so doing, the proposed rule change would capture
material conflicts of interest that, for example, only a supervisor or the head of research
may be aware of. The “reason to know” standard would not impose a duty of inquiry on
the debt research analyst or others who can influence the content of a debt research
report. Rather, it would cover disclosure of those conflicts that should reasonably be
discovered by those persons in the ordinary course of discharging their functions.
The proposed equity research rules include an additional disclosure if the member
or its affiliates maintain a significant financial interest in the debt or equity of the subject
company, including, at a minimum, if the member or its affiliates beneficially own 1% or
more of any class of common equity securities of the subject company. FINRA did not
include this provision in the proposed debt research rule because, unlike equity holdings,
firms do not typically have systems to track ownership of debt securities. Moreover, the
number and complexity of bonds, together with the fact that a firm may be both long and
short different bonds of the same issuer, make it difficult to have real-time disclosure of a
firm’s credit exposure. Therefore, the proposed rule change only requires disclosure of

82
For example, FINRA would consider it to be a material conflict of interest if the
debt research analyst or a member of the debt research analyst’s household serves
as an officer, director or advisory board member of the subject company.

--- PAGE 140 ---
Page 140 of 468

firm ownership of debt securities in research reports or a public appearance to the extent
those holdings constitute a material conflict of interest.83 While the ownership of the
equity securities of the subject company of a debt research report can constitute a conflict
of interest for the member that publishes or distributes the research report, FINRA does
not believe the conflict requires routine disclosure, even above some threshold of
ownership. This is because the impact of a debt research report on the market for an
equity security is more attenuated than that of an equity research report. In those
circumstances where the impact is heightened – e.g., a debt research report asserting that
a subject company may not be able to meet its debt service – disclosure could be captured
by the material conflict of interest provision.
The proposed rule change adopts from the equity research rules the general
exception for disclosure that would reveal material non-public information regarding
specific potential future investment banking transactions of the subject company.84
Similar to the equity research rules, the proposed rule change would require that
disclosures be presented on the front page of debt research reports or the front page must
refer to the page on which the disclosures are found. Electronic debt research reports,
however, may provide a hyperlink directly to the required disclosures. All disclosures
and references to disclosures required by the proposed rule must be clear, comprehensive
and prominent.85

83
See proposed FINRA Rules 2242(c)(4)(H) and (d)(1)(E).

84
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(5).
85
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(6).

--- PAGE 141 ---
Page 141 of 468

Like the equity research rule, the proposed rule change would permit a member
that distributes a debt research report covering six or more companies (compendium
report) to direct the reader in a clear manner to the applicable disclosures. Electronic
compendium reports must include a hyperlink to the required disclosures. Paper-based
compendium reports must provide either a toll-free number or a postal address to request
the required disclosures and also may include a web address of the member where the
disclosures can be found.86
Disclosure of Compensation Received by Affiliates
The proposed rule change would provide that a member may satisfy the disclosure
requirement with respect to receipt of non-investment banking services compensation by
an affiliate by implementing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to
prevent the debt research analyst and associated persons of the member with the ability to
influence the content of debt research reports from directly or indirectly receiving
information from the affiliate as to whether the affiliate received such compensation.87 In
addition, a member may satisfy the disclosure requirement with respect to the receipt of
investment banking compensation from a foreign sovereign by a non-U.S. affiliate of the
member by implementing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent
the debt research analyst and associated persons of the member with the ability to
influence the content of debt research reports from directly or indirectly receiving
information from the non-U.S. affiliate as to whether such non-U.S. affiliate received or
expects to receive such compensation from the foreign sovereign. However, a member

86
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(7).
87
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.04 (Disclosure of Compensation Received by
Affiliates).

--- PAGE 142 ---
Page 142 of 468

must disclose receipt of compensation by its affiliates from the subject company
(including any foreign sovereign) in the past 12 months when the debt research analyst or
an associated person with the ability to influence the content of a debt research report has
actual knowledge that an affiliate received such compensation during that time period.
Disclosure in Public Appearances
The proposed rule change closely parallels the equity research rules with respect
to disclosure in public appearances. Under the proposed rule, a debt research analyst
must disclose in public appearances:88
 if the debt research analyst or a member of the debt research analyst’s household
has a financial interest in the debt or equity securities of the subject company
(including, without limitation, whether it consists of any option, right, warrant,
future, long or short position), and the nature of such interest;
 if, to the extent the debt research analyst knows or has reason to know, the
member or any affiliate received any compensation from the subject company in
the previous 12 months;
 if the debt research analyst received any compensation from the subject company
in the previous 12 months;
 if, to the extent the debt research analyst knows or has reason to know, the subject
company currently is, or during the 12-month period preceding the date of
publication or distribution of the debt research report, was, a client of the member.
In such cases, the debt research analyst also must disclose the types of services
provided to the subject company, if known by the debt research analyst; or

88
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(d)(1).

--- PAGE 143 ---
Page 143 of 468

 any other material conflict of interest of the debt research analyst or member that
the debt research analyst knows or has reason to know at the time of the public
appearance.
However, a member or debt research analyst will not be required to make any
such disclosure to the extent it would reveal material non-public information regarding
specific potential future investment banking transactions of the subject company.89
Unlike in debt research reports, the “catch all” disclosure requirement in public
appearances applies only to a conflict of interest of the debt research analyst or member
that the analyst knows or has reason to know at the time of the public appearance and
does not extend to conflicts that an associated person with the ability to influence the
content of a research report or public appearance knows or has reason to know. FINRA
understands that supervisors typically do not have the opportunity to review and insist on
changes to public appearances, many of which are extemporaneous in nature.
The proposed rule change would require members to maintain records of public
appearances by debt research analysts sufficient to demonstrate compliance by those debt
research analysts with the applicable disclosure requirements for public appearances.
Such records must be maintained for at least three years from the date of the public
appearance.90
Disclosure Required by Other Provisions
With respect to both research reports and public appearances, the proposed rule
change would require that, in addition to the disclosures required under the proposed rule,

89
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(d)(2).
90
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(d)(3).

--- PAGE 144 ---
Page 144 of 468

members and debt research analysts must comply with all applicable disclosure
provisions of FINRA Rule 2210 (Communications with the Public) and the federal
securities laws.91
Distribution of Member Research Reports
The proposed rule change, like the proposed amendments to the equity research
rules, codifies an existing interpretation of FINRA Rule 2010 (Standards of Commercial
Honor and Principles of Trade) and provides additional guidance regarding selective – or
tiered – dissemination of a firm’s debt research reports. The proposed rule change
requires firms to establish, maintain and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to ensure that a debt research report is not distributed selectively to
internal trading personnel or a particular customer or class of customers in advance of
other customers that the member has previously determined are entitled to receive the
debt research report.92 The proposed rule change includes further guidance to explain
that firms may provide different debt research products and services to different classes
of customers, provided the products are not differentiated based on the timing of receipt
of potentially market moving information and the firm discloses its research
dissemination practices to all customers that receive a research product.93
A member, for example, may offer one debt research product for those with a
long-term investment horizon (“investor research”) and a different debt research product
for those customers with a short-term investment horizon (“trading research”). These

91
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(e).
92
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(f).
93
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.06 (Distribution of Member Research Products).

--- PAGE 145 ---
Page 145 of 468

products may lead to different recommendations or ratings, provided that each is
consistent with the meaning of the member’s ratings system for each respective product.
However, a member may not differentiate a debt research product based on the timing of
receipt of a recommendation, rating or other potentially market moving information, nor
may a member label a debt research product with substantially the same content as a
different debt research product as a means to allow certain customers to trade in advance
of other customers.
In addition, a member that provides different debt research products and services
for certain customers must inform its other customers that its alternative debt research
products and services may reach different conclusions or recommendations that could
impact the price of the debt security.94 Thus, for example, a member that offers trading
research must inform its investment research customers that its trading research product
may contain different recommendations or ratings that could result in short-term price
movements contrary to the recommendation in its investment research. FINRA
understands, however, that customers may actually receive at different times research
reports originally made available at the same time because of the mode of delivery
elected by the customer eligible to receive such research services (e.g., in paper form
versus electronic). However, members may not design or implement a distribution
system intended to give a timing advantage to some customers over others. FINRA will

94
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.06 (Distribution of Member Research Products).
A member that distributes both institutional and retail debt research would be
required to inform its retail customers of the existence of the institutional debt
research product and, if applicable, that the product may contain different
recommendations or ratings than its retail debt research product. This disclosure
need not be in each retail debt research report; rather, a member may establish
policies and procedures reasonably designed to inform retail investors of the
existence and nature of the institutional debt research product.

--- PAGE 146 ---
Page 146 of 468

read with interest comments as to whether a member should be required to disclose to its
other customers when an alternative research product or service does, in fact, contain a
recommendation contrary to the research product or service that those customers receive.
Distribution of Third-party Debt Research Reports
FINRA believes that the supervisory review and disclosure obligations applicable
to the distribution of third-party equity research should similarly apply to third-party
retail debt research. Moreover, the proposed rule change would incorporate the current
standards for third-party equity research, including the distinction between independent
and non-independent third-party research with respect to the review and disclosure
requirements. In addition, the proposed rule change adopts an expanded requirement in
the proposed equity research rules that requires members to disclose any other material
conflict of interest that can reasonably be expected to have influenced the member’s
choice of a third-party research provider or the subject company of a third-party research
report. FINRA believes that it is important that readers be made aware of any conflicts of
interest present that may have influenced either the selection or content of third-party
research disseminated to investors.
The proposed rule change would prohibit a member from distributing third-party
debt research if it knows or has reason to know that such research is not objective or
reliable.95 FINRA believes that, where a member is distributing or “pushing-out” third-
party debt research, the member must have written policies and procedures to vet the
quality of the research producers. A member would satisfy the standard based on its

95
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(1).

--- PAGE 147 ---
Page 147 of 468

actual knowledge and reasonable diligence; however, there would be no duty of inquiry
to definitively establish that the third-party research is, in fact, objective and reliable.
In addition, the proposed rule change would require a member to establish,
maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that
any third-party debt research report it distributes contains no untrue statement of material
fact and is otherwise not false or misleading.96 For the purpose of this requirement, a
member’s obligation to review a third-party debt research report extends to any untrue
statement of material fact or any false or misleading information that should be known
from reading the debt research report or is known based on information otherwise
possessed by the member.
The proposed rule change would require that a member accompany any third-
party debt research report it distributes with, or provide a web address that directs a
recipient to, disclosure of any material conflict of interest that can reasonably be expected
to have influenced the choice of a third-party debt research report provider or the subject
company of a third-party debt research report, including, at a minimum:
 if the member or any of its affiliates managed or co-managed a public
offering of securities for the subject company in the past 12 months;
received compensation for investment banking services from the subject
company in the past 12 months; or expects to receive or intends to seek
compensation for investment banking services from the subject company
in the next three months;

96
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(2).

--- PAGE 148 ---
Page 148 of 468

 if the member trades or may trade as principal in the debt securities (or in
related derivatives) that are the subject of the debt research report; and
 any other material conflict of interest of the debt research analyst or
member that the debt research analyst or an associated person of the
member with the ability to influence the content of a debt research report
knows or has reason to know at the time of the publication or distribution
of a debt research report.97
The proposed rule change would not require members to review a third-party debt
research report prior to distribution if such debt research report is an independent third-
party debt research report.98 For the purposes of the disclosure requirements for third-
party research reports, a member shall not be considered to have distributed a third-party
debt research report where the research is an independent third-party debt research report
and made available by a member upon request, through a member-maintained website, or
to a customer in connection with a solicited order in which the registered representative
has informed the customer, during the solicitation, of the availability of independent debt
research on the solicited debt security and the customer requests such independent debt
research.99

97
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(3).
98
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(4).
99
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(5).

--- PAGE 149 ---
Page 149 of 468

The proposed rule would require that members ensure that third-party debt
research reports are clearly labeled as such and that there is no confusion on the part of
the recipient as to the person or entity that prepared the debt research reports.100
Obligations of Persons Associated with a Member
The proposed rule change clarifies the obligations of each associated person under
those provisions of the proposed rule that require a member to restrict or prohibit certain
conduct by establishing, maintaining and enforcing particular policies and procedures.
Specifically, the proposed rule change provides that, consistent with FINRA Rule 0140,
persons associated with a member must comply with such member’s written policies and
procedures as established pursuant to the proposed rule. Failure of an associated person
to comply with such policies and procedures shall constitute a violation of the proposed
rule.101 In addition, consistent with Rule 0140, the proposed rule states in Supplementary
Material .08 that it shall be a rule violation for an associated person to engage in the
restricted or prohibited conduct to be addressed through the establishment, maintenance
and enforcement of written policies and procedures required by provisions of FINRA
Rule 2242, including applicable Supplementary Material, that embed in the policies and
procedures specific obligations on individuals. This Supplementary Material reflects
FINRA’s position that associated persons can be held liable for engaging in conduct that
is proscribed by the member under FINRA rules. FINRA is clarifying this point in the
Supplementary Material because the proposed rule change would adopt a policies and

100
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(g)(6). This requirement codifies guidance in
Notice to Members 04-18 (March 2004) related to equity research reports.
101
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.08 (Obligations of Persons Associated with a
Member).

--- PAGE 150 ---
Page 150 of 468

procedures approach to restricted and prohibited conduct with respect to research in place
of specific proscriptions in the current equity research rules. Thus, for example, where
the proposed rule requires a member to establish policies and procedures to prohibit debt
research analyst participation in road shows, associated persons also are directly
prohibited from engaging in such conduct, even where a member has failed to establish
policies and procedures. FINRA believes that it is incumbent upon each associated
person to familiarize themselves with the regulatory requirements applicable to his or her
business and should not be able to avoid responsibility where minimum standards of
conduct have been established for members.
Exemption for Members with Limited Investment Banking Activity
Similar to the equity research rules, the proposed rule change exempts from
certain provisions regarding supervision and compensation of debt research analysts
those members that over the previous three years, on average per year, have participated
in 10 or fewer investment banking services transactions as manager or co-manager and
generated $5 million or less in gross investment banking revenues from those
transactions.102 Specifically, members that meet those thresholds would be exempt from
the requirement to establish, maintain and enforce policies and procedures that: prohibit
prepublication review of debt research reports by investment banking personnel or other
persons not directly responsible for the preparation, content or distribution of debt
research reports (but not principal trading or sales and trading personnel, unless the
member also qualifies for the limited principal trading activity exemption); restrict or
limit investment banking personnel from input into coverage decisions; limit supervision

102
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(h).

--- PAGE 151 ---
Page 151 of 468

of debt research analysts to persons not engaged in investment banking; limit
determination of the research department budget to senior management, excluding senior
management engaged in investment banking activities; require that compensation of a
debt research analyst be approved by a compensation committee that may not have
representation from investment banking personnel; and establish information barriers to
insulate debt research analysts from the review or oversight by persons engaged in
investment banking services or other persons who might be biased in their judgment or
supervision.103 However, the proposed rule would require that members with limited
investment banking activity establish information barriers or other institutional
safeguards to ensure debt research analysts are insulated from pressure by persons
engaged in investment banking services activities or other persons, including persons
engaged in principal trading or principal sales and trading activities, who might be biased
in their judgment or supervision.104 FINRA believes that even where research analysts
need not be structurally separated from investment banking or other non-research
personnel, they should not be subject to pressures that could compromise their
independence and objectivity.
While small investment banks may need those who supervise debt research
analysts under such circumstances also to be involved in the determination of those
analysts’ compensation, the proposal still prohibits these firms from compensating a debt

103
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(A)(i), (b)(2)(B), (b)(2)(C) (with respect to
investment banking), (b)(2)(D)(i), (b)(2)(E) (with respect to investment banking),
(b)(2)(G) and (b)(2)(H)(i) and (iii).
104
For the purposes of proposed FINRA Rule 2242(h), the term “investment banking
services transactions” includes the underwriting of both corporate debt and equity
securities but not municipal securities.

--- PAGE 152 ---
Page 152 of 468

research analyst based upon specific investment banking services transactions or
contributions to a member’s investment banking services activities. Members that
qualify for this exemption must maintain records sufficient to establish eligibility for the
exemption and also maintain for at least three years any communication that, but for this
exemption, would be subject to all of the requirements of proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b).
FINRA has found the thresholds in the current equity rule to be reasonable and
appropriate: they reduce the challenges and costs of compliance for select provisions for
those firms whose limited investment banking business significantly reduces the
magnitude of conflicts that could impact investors. In addition, in the context of the
equity rules, FINRA analyzed data to see if changing the magnitude of either or both
thresholds – the number of transactions managed or co-managed or the amount of gross
revenues generated from those transactions – yielded a more appropriate universe of
exempted firms. FINRA reviewed and analyzed deal data for calendar years 2009
through 2011. FINRA reviewed firms that either managed or co-managed deals and
earned underwriting revenues from those transactions during the review period. The
analysis found that 155 of 317 such firms – or 49% – would have been eligible for the
exemption. The data further suggested that incremental upward adjustments to the
exemption thresholds would not result in a significant number of additional firms eligible
for the exemption. For example, increasing both of the thresholds by 33% (to 40
transactions managed or co-managed and $20 million in gross revenues over a three-year
period) would result in 18 additional exempted firms. As such, FINRA believes the
current exemption produces a reasonable and appropriate universe of exempted firms.
Since the exemption in the equity research rules relates to the same investment banking

--- PAGE 153 ---
Page 153 of 468

conflicts that debt research analysts face, FINRA believes the exemption, with its current
thresholds, is equally reasonable and appropriate for the debt research rules.
Exemption for Limited Principal Trading Activity
FINRA believes it appropriate to provide an exemption from some provisions of
the proposed rule that require separation of debt research from sales and trading and
principal trading for firms whose limited principal trading operations results in an
appreciably increased burden of compliance relative to the expected investor protection
benefits. In general, FINRA believes that firms with modest potential principal trading
profits pose lower risk of having sales and trading or principal trading personnel pressure
debt analysts, provided other safeguards remain in place. The proposed rule change
therefore includes an exemption from certain provisions regarding supervision and
compensation of debt research analysts for members that engage in limited principal
trading activity where: (1) in absolute value on an annual basis, the member’s trading
gains or losses on principal trades in debt securities are $15 million or less over the
previous three years, on average per year; and (2) the member employs fewer than 10
debt traders; provided, however, such members must establish information barriers or
other institutional safeguards to ensure debt research analysts are insulated from pressure
by persons engaged in principal trading or sales and trading activities or other persons
who might be biased in their judgment or supervision.105 Specifically, members that
meet those thresholds would be exempt from the requirement to establish, maintain and
enforce policies and procedures that: prohibit prepublication review of debt research
reports by principal trading or sales and trading personnel or other persons not directly

105
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(i).

--- PAGE 154 ---
Page 154 of 468

responsible for the preparation, content or distribution of debt research reports (but not
investment banking personnel, unless the firm also qualifies for the limited investment
banking activity exemption); restrict or limit principal trading or sales and trading
personnel from input into coverage decisions; limit supervision of debt research analysts
to persons not engaged in sales and trading or principal trading activities, including input
into the compensation of debt research analysts; limit determination of the research
department budget to senior management, excluding senior management engaged in
principal trading activities; require that compensation of a debt research analyst be
approved by a compensation committee that may not have representation from principal
trading personnel; and establish information barriers to insulate debt research analysts
from the review or oversight by persons engaged in principal trading or sales and trading
activities or other persons who might be biased in their judgment or supervision. 106
As with the limited investment banking activity exemption, members still would
be required to establish information barriers or other institutional safeguards to ensure
debt research analysts are insulated from pressure by persons engaged in principal trading
or sales and trading activities or other persons who might be biased in their judgment or
supervision. Members that qualify for this exemption must maintain records sufficient to
establish eligibility for the exemption and also maintain for at least three years any
communication that, but for this exemption, would be subject to all of the requirements of
proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b).

106
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(A)(ii) and (iii), (b)(2)(B), (b)(2)(C) (with
respect to sales and trading and principal trading), (b)(2)(D)(ii) and (iii), (b)(2)(E)
(with respect to principal trading), (b)(2)(G) and (b)(2)(H)(ii) and (iii).

--- PAGE 155 ---
Page 155 of 468

In crafting the exemption, FINRA sought a rational principal debt trading revenue
threshold for small firms where the conflicts addressed by the proposal might be
minimized. FINRA further considered the ability of firms with limited personnel to
comply with the provisions that require effective separation of principal debt trading and
debt research activities. To those ends, FINRA reviewed and analyzed available TRACE
and FOCUS data, particularly with respect to small firms (150 or fewer registered
representatives). FINRA supplemented its analysis with survey results from 72
geographically diverse small firms that engage in principal debt trading in varying
magnitudes. The survey sought more specific information on the nature of the firms’
debt trading – the breakdown between trading in corporate versus municipal securities
(which are excepted from the proposal) and the amount of “riskless principal” trading –
as well as the number of debt traders, whether any of those traders write research or
market commentary, and the prospective ability of firms to comply with the proposal’s
structural separation requirements.
Based on the data, FINRA analyzed the range of principal debt revenues
generated by small firms and determined that $15 million would be a reasonable
threshold for the exemption. However, because the revenue figure represents a net gain
or loss (in absolute terms) from principal debt trading activity, the potential exists that a
firm with substantial trading operations could have an anomalous year that yields net
revenues under the threshold. Therefore, FINRA added as a backstop the second
criterion of having fewer than 10 debt traders, to ensure the exemption applies only to
firms with modest debt trading activity. Furthermore, based on the assessment, FINRA
believes firms with 10 or more debt traders are more capable of dedicating a debt trader

--- PAGE 156 ---
Page 156 of 468

to writing research. FINRA notes that only eight of the 72 responding survey firms
indicated that they have debt traders that write either research or market commentary –
which is excepted from the definition of “debt research report” under the proposal – on
debt securities. FINRA intends to monitor the research produced by firms that avail
themselves of the exemption to assess whether the thresholds to qualify for the exemption
are appropriate or should be modified.
Exemption for Debt Research Reports Provided to Institutional Investors
FINRA understands that, unlike in the equity market, institutional investors
trading in debt securities tend to interact with broker-dealers in a manner more closely
resembling that of a counterparty than a customer. FINRA further understands that these
institutional investors value the timely flow of analysis and trade ideas related to debt
securities, are aware of the types of potential conflicts that may exist between a member’s
recommendations and trading interests, and are capable of exercising independent
judgment in evaluating such recommendations (and selectively incorporate research as a
data point in their own analytics) and reaching pricing decisions. Moreover, some well-
regarded debt research is produced by analysts that are part of the trading desk. The
separation required by the Rule would preclude this source of information. Given the
debt market and the needs of its participants, the proposed rule change would exempt
debt research distributed solely to eligible institutional investors (“institutional debt
research”) from most of the provisions regarding supervision, coverage determinations,
budget and compensation determinations and all of the disclosure requirements
applicable to debt research reports distributed to retail investors (“retail debt

--- PAGE 157 ---
Page 157 of 468

research”).107 Under the proposed rule change, the term “retail investor” means any
person other than an institutional investor.108
FINRA believes that institutional investors should opt in to receive institutional
debt research and should be able to choose to receive only debt research that is subject to
the full protections of the rule. The proposed rule distinguishes between larger and
smaller institutions in the manner in which their opt-in decision is obtained. The larger
may receive institutional debt research based on negative consent, while the smaller must
affirmatively consent in writing to receive that research.
Specifically, the proposed rule would allow firms to distribute institutional debt
research by negative consent to a person who meets the definition of a QIB109 and where,
pursuant to FINRA Rule 2111(b): (1) the member or associated person has a reasonable
basis to believe that the QIB is capable of evaluating investment risks independently,
both in general and with regard to particular transactions and investment strategies
involving a debt security or debt securities; and (2) the QIB has affirmatively indicated
that it is exercising independent judgment in evaluating the member’s recommendations
pursuant to FINRA Rule 2111 and such affirmation is broad enough to encompass
transactions in debt securities. The proposed rule change would require written
disclosure to the QIB that the member may provide debt research reports that are
intended for institutional investors and are not subject to all of the independence and
disclosure standards applicable to debt research reports prepared for retail investors. If

107
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(1).
108
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(13).

109
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(a)(12) under which a QIB has the same meaning
as under Rule 144A of the Securities Act.

--- PAGE 158 ---
Page 158 of 468

the QIB does not contact the member and request to receive only retail debt research
reports, the member may reasonably conclude that the QIB has consented to receiving
institutional debt research reports.110 FINRA interprets this standard to allow an order
placer, e.g., a registered investment adviser, for a QIB that satisfies the FINRA Rule 2111
institutional suitability requirements with respect to debt transactions to agree to receive
institutional debt research on behalf of the QIB by negative consent.
Institutional accounts that meet the definition of FINRA Rule 4512(c) but do not
satisfy the higher tier requirements described above may still affirmatively elect in
writing to receive institutional debt research. Specifically, a person that meets the
definition of “institutional account” in FINRA Rule 4512(c) may receive institutional
debt research provided that such person, prior to receipt of a debt research report, has
affirmatively notified the member in writing that it wishes to receive institutional debt
research and forego treatment as a retail investor for the purposes of the proposed rule.
Retail investors may not choose to receive institutional debt research.111
To avoid a disruption in the receipt of institutional debt research, the proposed
rule change would allow firms to send institutional debt research to any FINRA Rule
4512(c) account, except a natural person, without affirmative or negative consent for a
period of up to one year after SEC approval while they obtain the necessary consents.
Natural persons that qualify as an institutional account under FINRA Rule 4512(c) must

110
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(1)(A)(i) and (ii).

111
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(1)(B).

--- PAGE 159 ---
Page 159 of 468

provide affirmative consent to receive institutional debt research during this transition
period and thereafter.112
The proposed exemption relieves members that distribute institutional debt
research to institutional investors from the requirements to have written policies and
procedures for this research with respect to: (1) restricting or prohibiting prepublication
review of institutional debt research by principal trading and sales and trading personnel
or others outside the research department, other than investment banking personnel; (2)
input by investment banking, principal trading and sales and trading into coverage
decisions; (3) limiting supervision of debt research analysts to persons not engaged in
investment banking, principal trading or sales and trading activities; (4) limiting
determination of the debt research department’s budget to senior management not
engaged in investment banking or principal trading activities and without regard to
specific revenues derived from investment banking; (5) determination of debt research
analyst compensation; (6) restricting or limiting debt research analyst account trading;
and (7) information barriers to ensure debt research analysts are insulated from review or
oversight by investment banking, sales and trading or principal trading personnel, among
others (but members still must have written policies and procedures to guard again those
persons pressuring analysts). The exemption further would apply to all disclosure
requirements, including content and disclosure requirements for third-party research.
Notwithstanding the proposed exemption, some provisions of the proposed rule
still would apply to institutional debt research, including the prohibition on
prepublication review of debt research reports by investment banking personnel and the

112
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.11 (Distribution of Institutional Debt Research
During Transition Period).

--- PAGE 160 ---
Page 160 of 468

restrictions on such review by subject companies. While prepublication review by
principal trading and sales and trading personnel would not be prohibited pursuant to the
exemption, other provisions of the rule continue to require management of those
conflicts, including the requirement to impose information barriers to insulate debt
research analysts from pressure by those persons. Furthermore, the requirements in
Supplementary Material .05 related to submission of sections of a draft debt research
report for factual review would apply to any permitted prepublication review by persons
not directly responsible for the preparation, content or distribution of debt research
reports. In addition, members must prohibit debt research analysts from participating in
the solicitation of investment banking services transactions, road shows and other
marketing on behalf of issuers and further prohibit investment banking personnel from
directly or indirectly directing a debt research analyst to engage in sales and marketing
efforts related to an investment banking deal or to communicate with a current or
prospective customer with respect to such transactions. The provisions regarding
retaliation against debt research analysts and promises of favorable debt research also still
apply with respect to research distributed to eligible institutional investors.113 FINRA
believes that, notwithstanding the sophistication of its recipients, minimum objectivity
standards should apply to institutional debt research and members should not be
encouraged to use debt research analysts for the purpose of soliciting and marketing
investment banking transactions.

113
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(2). A member must establish, maintain and
enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and
effectively manage conflicts of interest described in paragraphs (b)(2)(A)(i),
(b)(2)(H) (with respect to pressuring), (b)(2)(I), (b)(2)(K), (b)(2)(L), (b)(2)(M),
(b)(2)(N) and Supplementary Material .02(a).

--- PAGE 161 ---
Page 161 of 468

While the proposed rule change does not require institutional debt research to
carry the specific disclosures applicable to retail debt research, it does require that such
research carry general disclosures prominently on the first page warning that: (1) the
report is intended only for institutional investors and does not carry all of the
independence and disclosure standards of retail debt research reports; (2) if applicable,
that the views in the report may differ from the views offered in retail debt research
reports; and (3) if applicable, that the report may not be independent of the firm’s
proprietary interests and that the firm trades the securities covered in the report for its
own account and on a discretionary basis on behalf of certain customers, and such trading
interests may be contrary to the recommendation in the report.114 Thus, the second and
third disclosures described above would be required only if the member produces both
retail and institutional debt research reports that sometimes differ in their views or if the
member maintains a proprietary trading desk or trades on a discretionary basis on behalf
of some customers and those interests sometimes are contrary to recommendations in
institutional debt research reports. Although FINRA typically favors specific disclosure
e.g., that a view or recommendation does, in fact, differ or is contrary to the member’s
trading interests – FINRA believes that the cost to track and identify a specific conflict
with respect to institutional debt research reports exceeds the value that specific
disclosure would provide to sophisticated institutional investors, particularly since those

114
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(3). With respect to the disclosure
requirement, if applicable, that the views in the institutional debt research report
may differ from views in retail debt research, FINRA notes institutional debt
research is not subject to Supplementary Material .06, which otherwise requires a
member to inform its customers of the existence of a different research product
offered to other customers that may reach different conclusions or
recommendations that could impact the price of the debt security.

--- PAGE 162 ---
Page 162 of 468

investors value timely analysis and trade ideas that could be diminished due to the
burdens associated with a specific disclosure requirement.
FINRA believes that this approach will maintain the flow of institutional debt
research to most institutional investors and allow firms to leverage existing compliance
efforts, while ensuring that those investors who receive institutional debt research
through negative consent have a high level of experience in evaluating transactions
involving debt securities, and that certain protections remain in place to manage potential
conflicts of interest. In addition, FINRA believes that this approach appropriately
acknowledges the arm’s-length nature of transactions between trading desk personnel and
institutional buyers. Finally, FINRA notes that no institutional investor will be exposed
to this less-protected institutional research without either negative or affirmative consent,
as applicable.
The proposed rule change would require members to establish, maintain and
enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that institutional
debt research is made available only to eligible institutional investors.115 A member may
not rely on the proposed exemption with respect to a debt research report that the member
has reason to believe will be redistributed to a retail investor. The proposed rule change
also states that the proposed exemption does not relieve a member of its obligations to
comply with the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws and FINRA rules.116

115
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(4).
116
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(j)(5).

--- PAGE 163 ---
Page 163 of 468

General Exemptive Authority
The proposed rule change would provide FINRA, pursuant to the FINRA Rule
9600 Series, with authority to conditionally or unconditionally grant, in exceptional and
unusual circumstances, an exemption from any requirement of the proposed rule for good
cause shown, after taking into account all relevant factors and provided that such
exemption is consistent with the purposes of the rule, the protection of investors, and the
public interest.117 Given the scope of the rule’s subject matter and the diversity of firm
sizes, structures and research business and distribution models, FINRA believes it would
be useful and appropriate to have the ability to provide relief from a particular provision
of the proposed rules under specific factual circumstances.
FINRA will announce the effective date of the proposed rule change in a
Regulatory Notice to be published no later than 60 days following Commission approval.
The effective date will be no later than 180 days following publication of the Regulatory
Notice announcing Commission approval.
2.
Statutory Basis
FINRA believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of
Section 15A(b)(6) of the Act,118 which requires, among other things, that FINRA rules
must be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote
just and equitable principles of trade, and, in general, to protect investors and the public
interest. FINRA believes that the proposed rule change would promote increased quality,
objectivity and transparency of debt research distributed to investors by requiring firms to

117
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(k).

118
15 U.S.C. 78o-3(b)(6).

--- PAGE 164 ---
Page 164 of 468

identify and mitigate conflicts in the preparation and distribution of such research.
FINRA further believes the rule will provide investors with more reliable information on
which to base investment decisions in debt securities, while maintaining timely flow of
information important to institutional market participants and providing those
institutional investors with appropriate safeguards.
B.
Self-Regulatory Organization’s Statement on Burden on Competition

FINRA does not believe that the proposed rule change will result in any burden
on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the
Act. The proposed rule change largely adopts provisions that have proven effective to
promote objective and reliable research in the equity research space, as detailed through
academic studies and other observations in the Joint Report and the GAO Report.119 The
GAO report, for example, concluded that empirical studies suggest the rules have resulted
in increased analyst independence and weakened the influence of conflicts of interest on
analyst recommendations.120

The proposed rule change would adopt a policies and procedures approach that
allows members to implement a compliance system that aligns with their particular
structure and business models, without diminishing investor protection. FINRA believes
that this proposed approach imposes less cost on members without reducing investor
protections than does a purely prescriptive approach or “one size fits all” approach with
respect to compliance. In addition, the proposed rule adopts a substantial portion of the
equity research rules. FINRA believes that many of the same conflicts of interest are

119
See Joint Report, supra note 8 at 12-23.
120
See GAO Report, supra note 9 at 11-15.

--- PAGE 165 ---
Page 165 of 468

present in the publication and distribution of equity and debt research and that
consistency among the debt and equity research rules will further minimize the burdens
to members to comply with the proposed rule change.

As set forth in Item II.C., FINRA elicited comment on proposed debt research
rules in two separate Regulatory Notices. In each instance, FINRA carefully considered
the commenters’ concerns and amended the proposal to address issues with respect to
costs and burdens raised by commenters. Even before the two proposals, FINRA issued a
concept proposal in Regulatory Notice 11-11 to gather information and identify
provisions of the equity research rules that would not be efficient or effective in a debt
research proposal. For example, the concept proposal included a parallel provision to the
equity rules that would have required a firm to promptly notify its customers if it intends
to terminate coverage in a debt security and include with the notice a final research
report. If it were impracticable to provide such final report, the concept proposal would
have required a firm to disclose to customers its reason for terminating coverage. FINRA
recognized that firms may have an extensive coverage universe of debt securities that
may only be the subject of episodic research coverage. As such, FINRA determined that
the termination of coverage provision in the debt context would be overly burdensome to
firms relative to its investor protection value and therefore eliminated the provision from
this revised proposal.

In addition, and as detailed below in Item II.C., FINRA considered numerous
iterations of an institutional exemption for debt research. Several commenters raised
issues regarding an earlier provision that would have required affirmative consent for all
institutional investors. In response to comments that the proposal was overly

--- PAGE 166 ---
Page 166 of 468

burdensome and may exclude a significant number of institutional investors from
receiving the debt research that they receive today, FINRA is now proposing a higher tier
of institutional investors that may receive institutional debt research based on negative
consent. As set forth in Regulatory Notice 12-42, FINRA also made several other
changes and clarifications in response to comments, including to the definition of “debt
research report,” the standard for disclosure of conflicts and the permissible interactions
between debt research analysts and sales and trading personnel.

FINRA also considered an alternative suggested by commenters to exempt all
trader commentary from the protections of the proposed rule. FINRA did not adopt this
alternative because it would create an avenue through which firms could funnel debt
research to retail investors without objectivity and reliability safeguards or disclosure of
conflicts. FINRA reviewed examples of trader commentary and believes that many of
those communications either do not meet the definition of a research report or are subject
to exceptions from that definition. For those that are debt research reports, FINRA
believes retail recipients should be entitled to the same protections, irrespective of the
author or department of origin. FINRA further understands that most trader commentary
is intended for sophisticated institutional investors, and to the extent a firm limits
distribution to eligible institutional investors, most of the provisions of the proposed rule
change would not apply. Therefore, FINRA believes its institutional exemption approach
strikes the appropriate balance between protecting retail investors and maintaining timely
information flow to more sophisticated investors.

FINRA also sought comment and engaged in data analysis, as described in Item
II.A.1., to fashion exemptions for firms with limited investment banking activity and

--- PAGE 167 ---
Page 167 of 468

limited principal trading activity. In combination with the institutional investor
exemption, FINRA believes the proposed rule change is narrowly tailored to achieve its
regulatory objectives.

Finally, FINRA notes that it solicited comment in Regulatory Notice 12-42 on the
economic impact of the proposed rule change, including quantified costs and the
anticipated effects on competition, but received little or no feedback.
C.
Self-Regulatory Organization’s Statement on Comments on the Proposed
Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others

Earlier iterations of the proposed rule change were published for comment in
Regulatory Notice 12-09 (“Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal) and Regulatory Notice 12-
42 (”Regulatory Notice 12-42 Proposal”) (together, the “Notice Proposals”). Copies of
the Regulatory Notices are attached as Exhibit 2a. A list of the commenters and copies of
the comment letters received in response to the Notice Proposals are attached as Exhibits
2b and 2c, respectively.
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal sought comment on a proposed rule to
govern the preparation and distribution of debt research pursuant to a tiered approach
based on whether debt research is distributed to retail or institutional investors. Under
the proposal, debt research distributed to retail investors would carry most of the same
protections provided to recipients of equity research, while institutional investors could
affirmatively opt in to a framework that would exempt such research from many of those
provisions. FINRA received seven comments in response to the proposal.121

121
See Letter from Joseph R.V. Romano, President, Romano Brothers & Co., to
Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated March 31, 2012
(“Romano”); letter from Ryan K. Bakhtiari, President, Public Investors
Arbitration Bar Association, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA,

--- PAGE 168 ---
Page 168 of 468

Commenters suggested significant changes to the proposal, most notably with respect to
the definitions of “debt security” and “debt research report,” the opt-in requirement for
institutional investors, and the restrictions on input into debt research budget and
compensation determinations by those involved in principal trading activities.
FINRA addressed several of the commenters’ concerns in the Regulatory Notice
12-42 Proposal, which included, among other things, amended exemptions for research
distributed to certain institutional investors and for firms with limited principal debt
trading activity. The amended exemption for institutional investors added a higher tier of
institutional investor that could receive institutional debt research by negative consent.
FINRA received five comment letters on the proposal.122 The comments focused on two
primary issues: the higher tier definition of institutional investor and the restrictions on

dated April 2, 2012 (“PIABA”); letter from Ira D. Hammerman, Senior Managing
Director, General Counsel and Secretary, Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated
April 2, 2012 (“SIFMA”); letter from Michael Nicholas, CEO, Bond Dealers of
America, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated April 2, 2012
(“BDA”); letter from Lee A. Pickard and William D. Edick, Pickard and Djinis
LLP, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated April 2, 2012
(“ASIR”); letter from Chris Charles, President, Wulff, Hansen & Co., to Marcia
E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated April 5, 2012 (“Wulff”); and
letter from Amy Natterson Kroll, Bingham McCutchen LLP, to Marcia E.
Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated April 10, 2012 (“Morgan Stanley”).
122
See Letter from Kurt N. Schacht, Managing Director, and Linda L. Rittenhouse,
Director, CFA Institute, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated
December 7, 2012 (“CFA”); letter from Michael Nicholas, CEO, Bond Dealers of
America, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated December 20,
2012 (“BDA”); letter from Lee A. Pickard and William D. Edick, Pickard and
Djinis LLP, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated December
20, 2012 (“ASIR”); letter from Roberts J. Stracks, Counsel, BMO Capital
Markets GKST Inc., to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated
December 20, 2012 (“BMO”); and letter from Kevin A. Zambrowicz, Managing
Director, Associate General Counsel, Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, to Marcia E. Asquith, Corporate Secretary, FINRA, dated January 4,
2013 (“SIFMA”).

--- PAGE 169 ---
Page 169 of 468

input by principal trading personnel into research budget and evaluation and
compensation determinations. Despite specific requests in the Regulatory Notice,
FINRA received little or no comment on the economic impact of the proposal or any
particular provisions.
A summary of the comments received on the Notice Proposals and FINRA’s
responses are set forth below.
Definitions
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal defined “debt security” to mean any
“security” as defined in Section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act, except for any “equity
security,” “municipal security” or “security-based swap” as defined in Section 3(a) of the
Exchange Act, or any U.S. Treasury Security as defined in FINRA Rule 6710(p).
SIFMA and BDA urged FINRA to expand the exceptions to the definition to include U.S.
agency securities and investment grade foreign government securities. BDA again urged
FINRA to exclude U.S. agency securities in response to the Regulatory Notice 12-42
Proposal. SIFMA further asked FINRA to clarify that “derivatives,” as defined in the
CFTC conflict rules are excluded from the definition of “debt security” because they are
subject to a separate federal regulatory regime. PIABA, on the other hand, thought
FINRA should include municipal securities and security-based swaps within the
definition.
FINRA did not believe it was appropriate to expand the exceptions to the
definition of “debt security” to include agency securities or foreign sovereign debt
securities and did not propose these changes to the definition. FINRA has not provided
these exclusions in the proposed rule change for a variety of reasons. First, commenters

--- PAGE 170 ---
Page 170 of 468

did not provide a rationale to exclude other non-equity securities. Second, treasury
securities are excluded because FINRA is reticent to interfere with the markets involving
direct obligations of the United States. In contrast, FINRA already has reporting schemes
around agency securities and does not think it appropriate to carve out Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac securities, for example. Municipal securities were excluded from the
proposal in part due to FINRA’s jurisdictional limitations with respect to those securities,
so suggestions to exclude other securities as analogous to municipals are misplaced.
FINRA believes an exclusion for foreign sovereign debt of other G-20 countries is
too broad, as the conflicts the rules address are similarly present with respect to research
on such securities, and therefore retail investors would benefit from the proposal’s
protections. Alternatively, commenters asked for greater flexibility with respect to
disclosure of compensation on foreign sovereign issues, in large part due to tracking
difficulties given the many and diverse relationships that firms’ affiliates have with
governments. In response, FINRA amended the proposal to permit firms, in lieu of
disclosing investment banking compensation received by a non-U.S. affiliate from
foreign sovereigns, to instead implement information barriers between that affiliate and
the debt research department to prevent direct or indirect receipt of such information.123
However, the proposed rule change would still require disclosure if the debt research
analyst has actual knowledge of receipt of investment banking compensation by the non-
U.S. affiliate.
As stated in Item II.A. above, the proposed rule excludes security-based swaps
from the definition of debt security given the nascent and evolving nature of security-

123
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242. 04 (Disclosure of Compensation Received by
Affiliates).

--- PAGE 171 ---
Page 171 of 468

based swaps regulation. FINRA intends to monitor regulatory developments with respect
to security-based swaps and may determine to later include such securities in the
definition of debt security.
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 proposal defined “debt research report” as any
written (including electronic) communication that includes an analysis of debt securities
and that provides information sufficient upon which to base an investment decision. The
term excluded the same communications excepted from the definition of “research
report” in NASD Rule 2711. Morgan Stanley and SIFMA suggested that the definition
should be amended to conform to the definition of “research report” in Regulation AC,
which defines “research report” as a “written communication . . . that includes an analysis
of a security or issuer . . . .” They further suggested that FINRA should include an
exception from the definition of “research report” similar to interpretive guidance found
in the Commission’s adopting release about the general characteristics of that term as it is
used in Regulation AC for “reports commenting on or analyzing particular types of debt
securities or characteristics of debt securities” that do not include an analysis of, or
recommend or rate individual securities or companies. In response to comments to both
of the Notice Proposals, FINRA agreed that the definition of “debt research report”
should be consistent with the definition in Regulation AC and therefore amended the
proposal to achieve that regulatory harmony, including the exception for reports on
classes of debt securities. This amendment is reflected in the proposed rule change.
In response to a suggestion by BDA to the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal,
FINRA included the exceptions to the definition of “debt research report” in the rule text
rather than by reference to the exceptions in NASD Rule 2711. BDA, BMO, Morgan

--- PAGE 172 ---
Page 172 of 468

Stanley, SIFMA, and Wulff, in response to one or both of the Notice Proposals,
suggested that FINRA should exclude from the definition desk communications,
including trader commentary, if such communications are sent only to institutional
investors. Among other arguments, these commenters asserted that trader commentary is
common in the debt markets, that institutions don’t rely on it as the sole basis for their
investment decisions and that inclusion of trader commentary within the definition of
“debt research report” is unduly burdensome and costly and could reduce available
market information to investors without “commensurate policy returns.” BDA asserted
that the proposal would categorically eliminate an entire segment of analysis for retail
investors without providing evidence that it is a harmful or abusive practice. In response
to Regulatory Notice 12-42, BDA also stated that the definition should exclude offering
documents for unregistered transactions and securities and any document prepared by or
at the request of the issuer or obligor of a security.
FINRA continues to believe it imprudent to create a broad exception from the
definition of “debt research report” based on the author or department of origin. As
explained in Regulatory Notice 12-09, such an approach creates a potential loophole
through which biased and non-transparent research could be disseminated to investors,
including retail investors. FINRA notes that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act declined to adopt
such an approach in the equity context. Furthermore, Regulation AC has no such
exception, so the regulatory consistency that commenters seek would be undermined. If,
as commenters maintain, trader commentary is mostly provided only to institutions, then
the institutional research exemption could exclude these communications from most of
the provisions of the rule that otherwise apply to retail debt research for institutions that

--- PAGE 173 ---
Page 173 of 468

opt in. While FINRA understands that institutions may be more attuned to conflicts,
FINRA believes it appropriate that even institutional debt research should retain certain
minimum standards of independence and transparency, including restrictions on
prepublication review by investment banking and the issuer, prohibitions on promises of
favorable research as an inducement for receipt of business or compensation and general
disclosure alerting recipients of the lesser standards and potential conflicts of interest
attendant to the research report.
FINRA declined BDA’s suggestion to exclude from the definition of “debt
research report” offering documents for unregistered transactions or any document
prepared by or at the request of the issuer or obligor of a security. BDA offered no
rationale for the exclusions, which would be inconsistent with Regulation AC.
Moreover, FINRA believes an exception for any document requested by an issuer would
seriously undermine the regulatory purpose of the proposed rule change because it would
allow a broker-dealer to distribute to retail investors a communication that contains all of
the elements of a debt research report but none of the protections where the issuer, a
conflicted party, requested it be created.
Prepublication Review
The proposed rule change maintains provisions in the Notice Proposals that would
prohibit prepublication review, clearance or approval of debt research reports by
investment banking, principal trading and sales and trading personnel. In response to the
Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal, SIFMA contended that the rule should permit
investment banking and sales and trading to review debt research reports prior to
publication for factual accuracy, subject to appropriate supervision. As an example,

--- PAGE 174 ---
Page 174 of 468

SIFMA cited research on new complex structured products, suggesting analysts need to
verify with investment banking or sales and trading that the basic facts about the products
are correct and to corroborate the accuracy of the analyst’s statements regarding trading
activity, prevailing market prices or yields. SIFMA also pointed out that current NASD
Rule 2711 permits such factual review of research reports by investment banking and
other non-research personnel.
First, FINRA notes that it has proposed to eliminate any prepublication review by
investment banking or other persons not directly responsible for the preparation, content
and distribution of equity research reports, other than legal and compliance personnel.
FINRA believes that review of facts in a report by investment banking and other non-
research personnel is unnecessary in light of the numerous other sources available to
verify factual information, including the subject company. FINRA notes that such review
may invite pressure on a research analyst that could be difficult to monitor. FINRA
further notes that such factual review is not permitted under the terms of the Global
Settlement124 and that FINRA staff has seen no evidence that the factual accuracy of
research produced by Global Settlement firms has suffered. Second, with respect to debt
research, the proposal delineates certain permissible communications between debt
research analysts and sales and trading and principal trading personnel necessary for each
to effectively discharge their responsibilities and facilitate debt market trading. Among
the allowable communications, a debt research analyst may seek information from sales
and trading and principal trading personnel regarding a “particular bond instrument,

124
See Letter from James A. Brigagliano, Assistant Director, SEC Division of
Trading and Markets, to Dana G. Fleischman, Clearly, Gottlieb, Steen &
Hamilton, dated Nov. 2, 2004.

--- PAGE 175 ---
Page 175 of 468

current prices, spreads, liquidity and similar market information relevant to the debt
research analyst’s valuation of a particular security.” In light of these permissible
communications, and the other reasons stated above, FINRA sees no compelling reason
why a debt research analyst needs further factual review from sales and trading or
principal trading personnel by sharing portions of a draft research report. FINRA
believes that any incremental improvement in accuracy by permitting factual review by
investment banking, principal trading or sales and trading personnel is outweighed by the
increased risk of pressure on a research analyst and the prospect that the perceived
objectivity of the research may be undermined. Therefore, the proposed rule change does
not incorporate the commenter’s suggestion.
Research Department Budget
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal limited determination of the research
department budget to senior management, other than persons engaged in investment
banking or principal trading activities, and without regard to specific revenues or results
derived from those activities. However, the proposal noted that revenues and results of
the firm as a whole may be considered in determining the debt research department
budget and allocation of research department expenses. Moreover, the proposal
permitted all persons within the firm to provide senior management input regarding the
demand for and quality of debt research, including product trends and customer interests.
In response to that proposal, SIFMA commented that senior management should
be permitted to consider principal trading and other business revenues in making budget
decisions, else senior management cannot accurately marry research funding to customer
needs. SIFMA further contended that the proposal’s other provisions adequately

--- PAGE 176 ---
Page 176 of 468

safeguard against inappropriate pressures by investment banking and principal trading
with respect to debt research budget determinations. The Regulatory Notice 12-42
Proposal maintained these restrictions on debt research budget input, and in response,
SIFMA again asserted that the provision denies research management the ability to assess
the value of the permissible input by comparing it to the revenues generated from
principal trading activities, thereby resulting in a misallocation of resources. SIFMA
contended that the allocation of the research department’s resources to a particular asset
class “will be and should be influenced by the size and profitability of the respective
market.”
FINRA appreciates the desire of firms to allocate research costs based on the
revenues to which the research department contributes, but also sees a countervailing
investor protection interest in firms managing conflicts between their revenue-producing
operations and research. FINRA believes that the size and allocation of the research
budget should be insulated from pressure by those business segments. In the case of
investment banking, FINRA believes the conflict is too pronounced to allow any
consideration of investment banking revenues in determining the research department
budget. However, given the vast array of debt securities and classes, FINRA believes it
appropriate to allow some consideration of revenue streams in allocating research budget
resources. Therefore, the proposed rule change would permit consideration of those
revenues, provided that: (1) senior management, other than persons engaged in principal
trading or investment banking activities, makes the final research department budget
determination;125 and (2) the member establishes information barriers or other

125
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(E).

--- PAGE 177 ---
Page 177 of 468

institutional safeguards to ensure that debt research analysts are insulated from the
review, pressure or oversight by persons engaged in principal trading activities, among
others.126
Debt Research Analyst Evaluation and Compensation
With respect to evaluation and compensation of debt research analysts, the
proposed rule change maintains a provision in the Notice Proposals that would allow
sales and trading personnel, but not persons engaged in principal trading activities, to
provide input to research management into the evaluation of a debt research analyst, so
long as research management makes final determinations on compensation, subject to
review by the compensation committee.
In response to the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal, SIFMA argued that the
proposal was too strict in prohibiting the input of principal trading personnel and
contributions to principal trading activities in determining debt research analyst
compensation. SIFMA asserted that as long as final compensation decisions rest with
research management and the compensation committee, FINRA should allow input from
principal trading personnel because those individuals regularly interface with customers
and therefore are a necessary resource for customer feedback on the quality and
productivity of debt research analysts. SIFMA also noted that the provision would
preclude input from persons who wear multiple hats and engage in both sales and
principal trading activities. Finally, SIFMA contended that compensation prohibitions
fail to acknowledge the important role that debt research analysts play in assisting market
making and customer facilitation desks.

126
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242(b)(2)(H).

--- PAGE 178 ---
Page 178 of 468

In response to Regulatory Notice 12-42, SIFMA reiterated that the provision will
deprive research management of important client feedback to evaluate debt research
analysts’ performance because principal traders are the primary conduit for such
information. According to SIFMA, there are limited means to obtain direct customer
feedback on the quality of research, and reliance on the sales force to provide customer
feedback is inadequate because debt traders can have as much or more interaction with
clients. In addition, SIFMA noted that the CFTC business conduct rules permit
employees of the business trading unit or clearing unit of a swap dealer or major swap
participant to communicate customer feedback, ratings and other indicators of research
analyst performance to research department management.127
While FINRA recognizes that there is some value in input from those engaged in
principal trading activities, FINRA believes such input is outweighed by conflicts that
could provide incentive for principal trading personnel to reward or punish a debt
research analyst with selected feedback based on whether his or her research or trading
ideas benefitted the firm’s trading activities. Conversely, debt research analysts may feel
compelled to produce research and trade ideas to benefit firm or particular customer
positions if their compensation is tied to contributions to principal trading activities.
Moreover, FINRA believes, in part based on discussions with research management
personnel, that input from sales and trading personnel provides an effective proxy for
customer feedback, to the extent such feedback cannot be obtained directly from

127
The CFTC rules apply to research on derivatives, which is predominantly an
institutional business. As noted below, the proposed rule change exempts from
the compensation prohibitions institutional debt research. By comparison,
SIFMA asked to allow principal traders to relay customer feedback in connection
with retail debt research.

--- PAGE 179 ---
Page 179 of 468

customers. Furthermore, FINRA believes that research management should be in a
position to assess the quality of the research it oversees. Finally, to the extent firms
qualify for the limited principal trading exemption in the proposed rule change, dual-
hatted persons engaged in both research and principal trading activities would be able to
provide feedback to research department management.
Given the importance of principal trading operations to the revenues of many
firms, FINRA believes there is increased risk that principal traders could improperly
pressure or influence debt research if they have input into analyst compensation or can
solicit, relay or characterize customer feedback on retail debt research. FINRA believes
this risk, which if manifested could directly impact retail investors, outweighs the benefit
of an additional data point for research management to evaluate the quality of research
produced by analysts they oversee.
BDA stated that FINRA should amend the proposal to clarify that debt research
analyst compensation may be based on the revenues and results of the firm as a whole.
FINRA agrees that a member may consider the overall success of the firm when
determining a debt analyst’s compensation, provided the member complies with the
compensation review and approval requirements. FINRA notes that the proposed rule
change specifies that the revenues and results of the firm as a whole may be considered in
determining the research department budget, including expenses. Since debt analyst
compensation is a research department expense, FINRA does not believe it necessary to
further amend the compensation provisions.
Prohibitions on Interactions with Investment Banking Personnel

--- PAGE 180 ---
Page 180 of 468

The proposed rule change would require members to have written policies and
procedures to prohibit participation in pitches and other solicitations of investment
banking services transactions and participation in road shows and other marketing on
behalf of an issuer related to investment banking services transactions.
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal had a similar provision, but did not limit
the marketing prohibition to investment banking services transactions. SIFMA asked
whether the proposed requirement with respect to road shows was intended to operate
identically with NASD Rule 2711. SIFMA also asked FINRA to clarify that, consistent
with NASD Rule 2711, the prohibition on road shows is only intended to cover road
shows and other marketing related to an investment banking transaction and not non-deal
road shows. FINRA is primarily concerned with marketing by research analysts in
connection with an investment banking services transaction, and therefore FINRA has
added that limitation to the provision in proposed rule change. FINRA notes, however,
that the overarching requirement to have written policies and procedures to manage
conflicts related to the interaction between debt research analysts and, among others,
subject companies would apply to other marketing activity on behalf of an issuer.
FINRA does not believe that merely facilitating a meeting between issuer management
and investors, absent other facts, would constitute marketing on behalf of the issuer.
In response to the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal, SIFMA contended that the
prohibition on joint due diligence conducted with the subject company in the presence of
investment banking personnel was overly restrictive. FINRA has clarified in the
proposed rule change that the prohibition on joint due diligence applies only during the
period prior to the selection by the issuer of the underwriters for the investment banking

--- PAGE 181 ---
Page 181 of 468

services transaction.128 In response to the Regulatory Notice 12-42 Proposal, SIFMA
commented that debt research analysts should be able to passively attend road show
presentations because, unlike equity analysts that frequently have access to issuer
management, the road show is often the only opportunity for a debt research analyst to
view an issuer’s management presentation and evaluate the credibility of management’s
business plan and outlook. SIFMA contended that it is impractical for issuers to meet
separately with debt research analysts and challenging for analysts to call in and listen to
an issuer presentation. SIFMA also noted that the concern is more pronounced in certain
sectors of the debt markets, such as high-yield and emerging markets.
FINRA does not believe that the prohibition with respect to road show
participation should differ between the debt and equity research rules, since the conflicts
are the same. FINRA believes the ability to listen remotely to a road show presentation
provides debt research analysts a reasonable means to hear the issuer management’s
story, while not appearing to be part of the deal team to prospective customers attending
the presentation in person. Therefore, FINRA did not amend this provision of the
proposal.
Prohibitions on Interactions with Sales and Trading
The proposed rule change maintains a provision in the Notice Proposals that
would require members to have written policies and procedures to prohibit certain
interactions between debt research and sales and trading and principal trading personnel.
The proposed rule change also delineates prohibited and permissible communications
between those persons. In response to the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal, SIFMA

128
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.09 (Joint Due Diligence).

--- PAGE 182 ---
Page 182 of 468

asked FINRA to clarify that the prohibition on attempting to influence analysts for the
purpose of benefiting the firm, a customer or class of customers would not capture
ordinary-course communications and is meant to prohibit non-research direction over the
decision to publish a report and non-research direction over the views and opinions
expressed in debt reports. The proposed rule provides that communications between debt
research analysts and trading desk personnel that are not related to sales and trading,
principal trading or debt research activities may take place without restriction, unless
otherwise prohibited.129
SIFMA also recommended that FINRA include in the proposed rule text the
language provided in Regulatory Notice 12-09 that, in assessing whether a debt research
analyst’s permissible communications are “inconsistent” with the analyst’s published
research, firms may consider the context, including that the investment objectives or time
horizons being discussed differ from those underlying the analyst’s published views.
FINRA incorporated the suggested language into proposed FINRA Rule 2242.130
ASIR noted that the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal goes beyond NASD Rule
2711 by restricting not only communications between analysts and investment banking,
but also between debt research analysts and sales and trading personnel. ASIR asserted
that the debt research proposal should only restrict communications between research and
investment banking personnel, so as to harmonize with the equity rules.
The proposed rule change specifically addresses communications between debt
research and sales and trading and principal trading personnel because the interests of the

129
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(c).
130
See proposed FINRA Rule 2242.03(b)(3).

--- PAGE 183 ---
Page 183 of 468

trading department create a particularly pronounced conflict with respect to debt research.
This is because, under current market conditions, principal trading is far more prevalent
in the debt markets than in the equity markets. However, FINRA continues to monitor
the relationship between equity research and sales and trading and principal trading
personnel to assess whether similar specific restrictions should be applied in the equity
research context. FINRA notes that the current and proposed equity research rules do
require firms to manage conflicts between equity research and other non-research
personnel, including those engaged in sales and trading and principal trading activities.
Conflicts Disclosure
With respect to the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal, SIFMA and BDA found
overly broad the provision that requires disclosure of “all conflicts that reasonably could
be expected to influence the objectivity of the research report and that are known or
should have been known by the member or debt research analyst on the date of
publication or distribution of the report.” SIFMA contended that the language would
require firms to identify “all possible conflicts (material or immaterial)” and encouraged
FINRA to either specify the conflicts it intends to capture or rely on the standard in
NASD Rule 2711 requiring disclosure of “actual, material” conflicts. SIMFA further
questioned whether conflicts could ever be expected to influence the objectivity of
research reports and suggested that existing FINRA research rules and Regulation AC
assume the contrary.
In response to SIFMA’s doubt that conflicts could ever be expected to influence
the objectivity of research reports, FINRA notes that its research rules are premised on
the belief that conflicts can be disinfected – and possibly discouraged – by disclosure and

--- PAGE 184 ---
Page 184 of 468

will give investors the material information needed to assess the objectivity of a research
report. In addition, the rules prohibit certain conduct where the conflicts are too
pronounced to be cured by disclosure. Yet the rules do not – and cannot – identify every
such conflict. Thus, at a minimum, FINRA’s proposal would require firms to identify
and disclose them.
In general, FINRA believes that an immaterial conflict could not reasonably be
expected to influence the objectivity of a research report, and therefore a materiality
standard is essentially congruent with the proposed standard. FINRA agrees that the
“catch-all” disclosure provision captures such material conflicts that the research analyst
and persons with the ability to influence the content of a research report know or have
reason to know. Therefore, FINRA has amended the proposal to delete as superfluous
the overarching obligation to disclose “all conflicts that reasonably could be expected to
influence the objectivity of the research report and that are known or should have been
known by the member or research analyst on the date of publication or distribution of the
report.”
SIFMA also contended that the requirement in proposed FINRA Rule 2242(c)(5)
to disclose information on the date of publication or distribution is broader than current
NASD Rule 2711, which only applies at the time of publication, and problematic
logistically because the broader standard is not reflective of the conflicts that apply at the
time the debt research analyst writes the research report. In addition, SIFMA argues that
it is unclear how members could control and prevent the distribution of reports that have
already been published in order to determine if additional disclosures are required.
FINRA notes that the term “distribution” is drawn from the provisions of the Sarbanes-

--- PAGE 185 ---
Page 185 of 468

Oxley Law that apply to equity research reports and is intended to capture research that
may only be distributed electronically as opposed to published in hard copy. FINRA has
included the same “publication or distribution” language in the proposed changes to the
equity research rules. However, FINRA interprets this language to require the
disclosures to be current only as of the date of first publication or distribution, provided
that the research report is prominently dated, and the disclosures are not known to be
misleading.
The proposed rule text in the Regulatory Notice 12-09 Proposal required firms to
ensure any recommendation or rating has a reasonable basis in fact and is accompanied
by a clear explanation of the valuation method utilized and a fair presentation of the risks
that may impede achievement of the recommendation or rating. SIFMA requested
clarification that the requirement with respect to valuation method should apply only if
the analyst used a “formal” valuation method. FINRA is not clear what constitutes a
“formal” valuation method, but made a clarification in the proposed rule change to
provide that any recommendation or rating must be accompanied by a clear explanation
of “any” (as opposed to “the”) valuation method used.
SIFMA also sought several other clarifications on the proposal. First, it asked
FINRA to clarify that the requirement to include in research reports that contain a rating a
distribution of “all securities rated by the member to which the member would assign a
‘buy,’ ‘hold,’ or ‘sell’ rating” is limited to debt securities. FINRA agrees that the
proposed provision is limited to debt securities and has changed the text accordingly.
Second, SIFMA sought flexibility to make a good faith determination as to which
securities constitute a debt security that must be accompanied by a “ratings table,” given

--- PAGE 186 ---
Page 186 of 468

that bonds of the same issuer may have different ratings. FINRA agrees that any ratings
table should reflect ratings of distinct securities rather than issuers. Finally, SIFMA
requested guidance to distinguish between a “recommendation” and a “rating” for the
purposes of disclosure under the revised proposal. In particular, SIFMA suggested that a
recommendation of a relative value or paired trade idea should constitute a
recommendation but not a rating. While any determination will be fact specific, FINRA
believes in general that a recommendation is a suggestion to make a particular investment
while a rating is a label or conclusion attached to a research report.
SIFMA asked that FINRA allow firms to modify the required “health warning”
disclosure for institutional debt research to refer to “this document” rather than “this
research report” when the material is not prepared by research department personnel.
While FINRA would permit firms to use the word “document” rather than “research
report,” such labeling must be used consistently and would have no bearing on whether
the communication constitutes a “research report” for purposes of the proposed rule.
Third-Party Research Reports
With respect to distribution of third-party debt research reports, SIMFA objected
to requirements in the Notice Proposals that do not currently apply to equity research
under NASD Rule 2711. In particular, SIFMA cited the requirement to establish,
maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that
any third-party debt research report it distributes is “reliable and objective.” SIFMA
stated that it is unclear what FINRA means by “objective.” With respect to the
requirement to disclose “any material conflict of interest that can reasonably expected to
have influenced the choice of a third-party debt research provider or the subject company

--- PAGE 187 ---
Page 187 of 468

of a third-party debt research report,” SIFMA stated that it is “not clear what types of
conflicts this provision is intended to capture.”
FINRA notes that its equity research proposal contains identical requirements
with respect to the selection and distribution of third-party research. FINRA believes it
reasonable to require firms to conduct upfront due diligence on the quality of its third-
party research providers, particularly given the lesser review obligations imposed prior to
distribution. FINRA notes that Global Settlement firms had to have such procedures to
select their independent research providers,131 and FINRA does not believe it
unreasonable to have some type of screening procedures to ensure, for example that the
third-party provider is not being paid by the issuer or that the research has some kind of
track record or good reputation. In fact, in a 2006 comment letter, SIFMA stated that
firms should “demand high standards” from providers of third-party research.132 FINRA
further believes it appropriate for firms to disclose to investors any relationship, e.g., an
affiliate relationship, or other circumstances that rise to a material conflict of interest that
could reasonably be seen as having influenced the choice of third-party research provider.
FINRA believes this disclosure is consistent with the requirement to disclosure material
conflicts of interest with respect to a firm’s own research, and therefore will similarly
promote objectivity and transparency of information provided to investors that may
influence their investment decisions. FINRA notes that a firm may avoid the requirement

131
See Letter from James A. Brigagliano, Assistant Director, SEC Division of
Trading and Markets, to Dana G. Fleischman, Clearly, Gottlieb, Steen &
Hamilton, dated Nov. 2, 2004.

132
See Letter from Michael D. Udoff, SIFMA, to Nancy M. Morris, Secretary, SEC,
dated Nov. 14, 2006.

--- PAGE 188 ---
Page 188 of 468

to review third-party research for false or misleading statements if it chooses to distribute
only independent third-party research.133
In response to the Notice Proposals, ASIR commented that the proposal could be
read to impose obligations on members who make available third-party research pursuant
to Section 28(e) of the Exchange Act to have procedures to ensure that such research is
reliable and objective and labeled in a certain manner. FINRA is not proposing to make
any changes based on this comment. However, research made available pursuant to
Section 28(e) is not “distributed” and therefore the proposed requirements would not
apply.
Institutional Investor Definition
The Regulatory Notice 12-09 proposal would have exempted from many of the
rule’s provisions debt research reports disseminated only to “institutional investors,”
provided that those institutional investors had, prior to receipt of a debt research report,
affirmatively notified the member in writing that they wished to forego treatment as a
retail investor for the purposes of the rule. ASIR, BDA and SIFMA found this provision
unnecessarily burdensome and difficult to implement and track. The commenters noted
that they already expend resources to document similar consents under FINRA’s
suitability rule and that the nature of research distribution makes it more challenging than
the suitability rule to track and process all eligible institutional investors that have
consented to receive institutional debt research. Commenters instead advocated an
approach whereby persons or entities that otherwise meet the definition of “institutional
investor” – as defined in FINRA Rule 4512(c) – are presumed to have consented to the

133
See proposed FINRA Rules 2242(g)(2) and (g)(4).

--- PAGE 189 ---
Page 189 of 468

institutional debt research regime unless they affirmatively choose to receive the
protections afforded recipients of retail debt research. Among other things, these
commenters asserted that this alternative approach would be less costly and burdensome
to administer and that the remaining protections afforded institutional debt research under
the proposal, together with the content standards applicable to institutional
communications pursuant to FINRA’s Communications with the Public rules,134 provide
less sophisticated institutional investors adequate protections should they not to choose
be treated as retail investors for the purposes of debt research.
After considering these comments and discussing the issue further with industry
members, FINRA proposed a revised institutional investor exemption in the Regulatory
Notice 12-42 Proposal. Under the revised proposal, institutional investors that meet the
definition of QIB and satisfy the FINRA Rule 2111 institutional suitability standards with
respect to debt trading and strategies would be eligible to receive institutional debt
research by way of negative consent. Other institutional investors that meet the definition
in FINRA Rule 4512(c) but do not satisfy the higher tier requirements could still
affirmatively elect in writing to receive institutional debt research. The revised proposal
asked whether alternative standards for the higher tier would be more appropriate,
including one that combines the FINRA Rule 4512(c) definition and the institutional
suitability requirements.
CFA Institute supported the revised higher tier of QIB plus suitability standard in
Regulatory Notice 12-42. SIFMA, BDA and BMO opposed it. BDA asserted that all

134
At the time of the comment letters, those content standards were found in NASD
IM-2110-1. Since that time, the Commission has approved a consolidated FINRA
communications with the public rule, and those standards are now found in
FINRA Rule 2210(d).

--- PAGE 190 ---
Page 190 of 468

QIBs should be able to receive research on debt securities without consent since they are
in the business of investing and that an institutional suitability standard should be
imposed to determine whether other institutional accounts may receive institutional debt
research. BMO expressed concern that the proposal to require affirmative consent is
cumbersome and burdensome and would deprive some smaller and mid-size institutional
investors of research they receive today, in part because experience has shown that some
institutional clients cannot or will not provide the affirmation required in FINRA Rule
2111.
SIFMA contended that the proposal had both practical and logical flaws. SIFMA
maintained that the QIB component would introduce a problematic new standard that
would require complex and costly systems to track QIB certifications and link them to
FINRA Rule 2111 certifications and research distribution lists. SIFMA stated that one
firm estimated a cost of $5 million to develop such a system. SIFMA further noted that
suitability certifications are tracked at the order placer level, whereas QIBs are tracked
for particular transactions. SIFMA also asserted that the proposal would lead to
anomalous results, such as the circumstance where a dual registered investment adviser
has multiple institutional accounts, only some of which have QIB certificates. SIFMA
asked how the registered investment adviser could meet its duty to all of its clients but
only utilize the institutional debt research for the QIBs. SIFMA further questioned the
logic of a proposal that would allow institutional investors to transact in restricted
securities but not receive research on those securities without taking additional steps.
SIFMA offered two alternatives for the higher tier: (1) Non-natural persons that
satisfy institutional suitability requirements with respect to debt trading and strategies; or

--- PAGE 191 ---
Page 191 of 468

(2) certain order placing institutions: QIBs; registered broker-dealers, banks, savings and
loans, insurance companies, registered investment companies; registered investment
advisers; institutions with $50-$100 million in assets and represented by an independent
investment adviser; and universities, regulatory and government entities that use research
for academic purposes.
FINRA does not believe that retail investors or less sophisticated institutional
investors should be required to take any additional steps to receive the full protections of
the proposed rule. FINRA believes that some QIBs may lack expertise and experience in
debt market analysis and trading, including some employee benefit plans, trust funds with
participants of employee benefit plans and charitable organizations. For the same
reasons, FINRA believes SIFMA’s first alternative is too broad in that it would require
less sophisticated institutional customers to affirmatively opt-in to the full protections of
the rule. Therefore, the proposed rule change would adopt a standard under which firms
may use negative consent only for the higher standard QIBs that also satisfy the
institutional suitability requirements under FINRA Rule 2111 with respect to debt
transactions, and affirmative consent from any institutional account as defined in FINRA
Rule 4512(c). To avoid a disruption in the receipt of institutional debt research, the
proposed rule change would allow firms to send institutional debt research to any FINRA
Rule 4512(c) account, except a natural person, without affirmative or negative consent
for a period of up to one year after SEC approval while they obtain the necessary
consents. Natural persons that qualify as an institutional account under Rule 4512(c)
must provide affirmative consent to receive institutional debt research during this
transition period and thereafter.

--- PAGE 192 ---
Page 192 of 468

FINRA believes that the proposed institutional investor definition strikes an
appropriate balance between protecting less sophisticated institutional investors and
maintaining the flow of research – and minimizing the burdens and costs of distributing
debt research – to knowledgeable institutional investors. The exemption provides
additional protections beyond the FINRA Rule 4512(c) standard for firms to receive
institutional debt research by negative consent by ensuring that those institutions satisfy
the higher QIB standard and are both capable of evaluating investment risks with respect
to debt trading and strategies and have affirmatively indicated that they are exercising
independent judgment in evaluating recommendations for such transactions. FINRA
believes an affirmative consent requirement is appropriate for FINRA Rule 4512(c)
accounts, which are more likely to include investors lacking experience in debt market
analysis and trading. To the extent a FINRA Rule 4512(c) institutional investor values
institutional debt research, FINRA believes the proposed rule change imposes a one-time
small burden on such investors to provide written consent. Some firms indicated to
FINRA that the consent could be obtained at the time of other required written
authorizations. FINRA believes the one-year grace period will ease the transition to the
new rules without disrupting the current flow of debt research to institutional clients.
As to SIFMA’s second alternative above, FINRA believes it would only
exacerbate SIFMA’s stated concerns about introducing a new standard, as the suggested
standard has no precedent and is even more complex and presumably difficult to track
than the QIB plus suitability standard FINRA proposes to adopt to receive institutional
debt research by negative consent.

--- PAGE 193 ---
Page 193 of 468

SIFMA also commented that even if FINRA adopted its preferred institutional
suitability standard for the higher tier, many firms may not avail themselves of the
exemption because of cost, logistics and obligations to provide their research to retail
customers. Thus, SIFMA asked to narrow the scope of restricted persons by adopting the
following definition of “principal trading” to mean:
Engaging in proprietary trading activities for the trading book of a
member but does not include transactions undertaken as part of
underwriting related, market making related, or hedging activities,
or otherwise on behalf of clients.
FINRA declined to adopt the suggested definition. FINRA believes the definition
is overly broad and ambiguous and could encourage traders to pressure debt research
analysts to support firm inventory positions. For example, the proposed definition would
seem to permit traders of auction rate securities to participate in the determination of
compensation for debt research analysts, thereby sanctioning the type of concerning
conduct that served as a catalyst for rulemaking in this area. For the same reason, FINRA
declines a request by BMO for FINRA to clarify that persons who position debt inventory
to sell on a principal basis to customers but not for a firm’s proprietary trading account
would not be deemed to be engaged in principal trading activities.
SIFMA indicated to FINRA in discussions subsequent to their comment letter that
firms with large institutional client bases were divided on whether the QIB-based
negative consent standard or the FINRA Rule 4512(c) affirmative consent standard
would be preferable from a cost efficiency perspective. The proposed rule change
provides both options, which FINRA believes will help reduce the costs to satisfy the

--- PAGE 194 ---
Page 194 of 468

exemption requirements. The proposed rule change further reduces the costs of
compliance by interpreting the QIB-based alternative to capture both QIBs and any order
placer (e.g. registered investment adviser) that has at least one QIB sub-account. FINRA
believes this interpretation addresses SIFMA’s concern that suitability certifications are
tracked at the order placer level, while QIBs are tracked for particular transactions, as
well as concerns as to how the requirement would apply to a registered investment
adviser with both QIB and non-QIB accounts. FINRA understands that the single $5
million estimate referenced by SIFMA in its letter was based in large part on the cost of
developing a system that could directly link institutional suitability certifications to QIB
sub-accounts and that the interpretation would appreciably reduce the burden.
Limited Investment Banking or Principal Trading Activities Exemptions
The proposed rule change includes an exemption for firms with limited
investment banking activity, which is defined as managing or co-managing 10 or fewer
investment banking services transactions on average per year over the previous three
years and generating $5 million or less in gross investment banking revenues from those
transactions. The proposed rule change also includes an exemption for firms that engage
in limited principal trading activity where, in absolute value on an annual basis, the
member’s trading gains or losses on principal trades in debt securities are $15 million or
less over the previous three years, on average per year, and the member employs fewer
than 10 debt traders.
In response to Regulatory Notice 12-42, CFA opposed both the proposed
exemption for firms with limited investment banking and the proposed exemption for
firms with limited principal debt trading activities because they would allow influences

--- PAGE 195 ---
Page 195 of 468

that could compromise the independence and accuracy of debt research distributed to
retail investors. FINRA did not propose any changes based on CFA’s comments. With
respect to the limited investment banking exemption, FINRA notes that this provision
parallels an exemption in the equity research rules and FINRA has not found any
evidence of abuse by firms subject to the exemption. With respect to the exemption for
limited principal trading activity, FINRA notes that it would be limited to those firms
whose limited trading activity makes the conflicts less pronounced and where it would be
a significant marginal cost to add a trader dedicated to producing research.
In response to Regulatory Notice 12-09, Wulff and Romano expressed concerns
regarding the exemption for firms that engage in limited investment banking activity,
arguing that it did not go far enough to curtail the burden of the proposed rule on small
firms, many of which have associated persons that engage in both producing debt
research and principal trading activities, and that the thresholds were not appropriate for a
proposal regarding debt research conflicts of interest. FINRA subsequently amended the
proposal to add a more targeted exemption for firms with limited principal trading
activity. The exemption, discussed in detail in Item II.A.1., addresses the concerns of
small firms with dual-hatted persons by exempting those firms that engage in modest
principal trading activity from the restrictions on supervision and compensation
determination of debt research analysts by those engaged in sales and trading and
principal trading activities. As noted above, FINRA determined the thresholds for the
exemption based on data analysis and a survey of firms that engage in principal trading
activity.

--- PAGE 196 ---
Page 196 of 468

In addition, FINRA maintained the exemption for firms with limited investment
banking activity, exempting eligible firms from similar supervision and compensation
determination restrictions with respect to investment banking personnel. FINRA also
engaged in data analysis, discussed in Item II.A.1., to confirm the appropriateness of the
proposed thresholds for that exemption.
Effective Date
In response to both Regulatory Notices, SIFMA requested that FINRA establish
an effective date that will provide adequate time for implementation of the proposed rule
change, e.g., 12 to 18 months after SEC approval. FINRA notes that it will provide
sufficient time for implementation taking into account any required systems changes.
III.
Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission
Action

Within 45 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or
within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date
if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or
(ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will:

(A) by order approve or disapprove such proposed rule change, or

(B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should
be disapproved.

IV.
Solicitation of Comments

Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments
concerning the foregoing, including whether the proposed rule change is consistent with
the Act. Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic Comments:

--- PAGE 197 ---
Page 197 of 468


Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml); or

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number
SR-FINRA-2014-048 on the subject line.
Paper Comments:

Send paper comments in triplicate to Brent J Fields, Secretary, Securities
and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-
1090.
All submissions should refer to File Number SR-FINRA-2014-048. This file number
should be included on the subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Commission process
and review your comments more efficiently, please use only one method. The
Commission will post all comments on the Commission’s Internet website
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml). Copies of the submission, all subsequent
amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed
with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule
change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld
from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for
website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10 a.m. and 3
p.m. Copies of such filing also will be available for inspection and copying at the
principal office of FINRA. All comments received will be posted without change; the
Commission does not edit personal identifying information from submissions. You
should submit only information that you wish to make available publicly. All

--- PAGE 198 ---
Page 198 of 468

submissions should refer to File Number SR-FINRA-2014-048 and should be submitted
on or before [insert date 21 days from publication in the Federal Register].

For the Commission, by the Division of Trading and Markets, pursuant to
delegated authority.135
Brent J Fields
Secretary

135
17 CFR 200.30-3(a)(12).

--- PAGE 199 ---
1
Regulatory Notice
12-09
February 2012
Executive Summary
FINRA seeks comment on a revised debt research conflicts of interest proposal
that reflects changes based on comments to a concept proposal discussed in
Regulatory Notice 11-11. The revised proposal maintains a tiered approach
based on whether debt research is distributed to retail or institutional
investors. Debt research distributed to retail investors would carry most of the
same protections provided to recipients of equity research, while institutional
investors could opt in to a framework that exempts such research from many
of those provisions.
The text of the proposed rule can be found at www.finra.org/notice/12-09.
Questions concerning this Notice should be directed to:
0
0
Philip Shaikun, Associate Vice President, Office of General Counsel (OGC),
at (202) 728-8451; and
0
0
Racquel Russell, Assistant General Counsel, OGC, at (202) 728-8363.
Debt Research Reports
FINRA Requests Comment on a Proposal to Identify
and Manage Conflicts Involving the Preparation and
Distribution of Debt Research Reports
Comment Period Expires: April 2, 2012
Notice Type
0
0 Request for Comment
Suggested Routing
0
0 Compliance
0
0 Fixed Income
0
0 Investment Banking
0
0 Legal
0
0 Research
0
0 Senior Management
0
0 Trading
Key Topics
0
0 Conflicts of Interest
0
0 Fixed Income
0
0 Research
0
0 Trading
Referenced Rules
0
0 FINRA Rule 2111
0
0 NASD Rule 2711
Exhibit 2a
Page 199 of 468

--- PAGE 200 ---
2
Regulatory Notice
February 2012
12-09
Action Requested
FINRA encourages all interested parties to comment on the proposal. Comments must be
received by April 2, 2012.
Member firms and other interested parties can submit their comments using the following
methods:
0
0
Emailing comments to pubcom@finra.org; or
0
0
Mailing comments in hard copy to:
Marcia E. Asquith
Office of the Corporate Secretary
FINRA
1735 K Street, NW
Washington, DC 20006-1506
To help FINRA process and review comments more efficiently, persons should use only
one method to comment on the proposal.
Important Notes: The only comments that FINRA will consider are those submitted
pursuant to the methods described above. All comments received in response to this
Notice will be made available to the public on the FINRA website. Generally, FINRA will
post comments as they are received.1
Before becoming effective, a proposed rule change must be authorized for filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by the FINRA Board of Governors, and then
must be filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (SEA).2
Background and Discussion
FINRA sought comment in Regulatory Notice 11-11 on a concept proposal to require firms
to identify and manage conflicts of interest related to the preparation and distribution
of debt research reports. The concept proposal adopted a tiered approach that generally
would provide retail debt research recipients with the same extensive protections provided
to recipients of equity research (with certain modifications to reflect the unique nature and
trading of debt securities), while exempting debt research provided solely to institutional
investors from many of those provisions, including nearly all disclosure requirements. The
concept proposal further provided that institutional investors could opt in to the more
protective regime afforded debt research distributed to retail investors. Additionally, the
concept proposal set forth unique guidelines for communications between debt research
analysts and sales and trading personnel that acknowledged (1) the need to ration a debt
analyst’s resources among the multitude of debt securities; (2) the limitations on price
discovery in the debt markets; and (3) the need for trading personnel to perform credit risk
analyses with respect to current and prospective inventory.
Page 200 of 468

--- PAGE 201 ---
Regulatory Notice
3
February 2012 12-09
FINRA received six comment letters in response to the concept proposal. Based in part on
those comments and further discussions with the industry, FINRA now seeks comment on a
revised debt research proposal. The key provisions of the revised proposal are set out below;
however, interested parties should carefully read the attached rule text for a complete and
detailed understanding of the proposal.
Definitions
The concept proposal defined “debt security” as any “security” other than an “equity
security,” a “treasury security” or a “municipal security” (as those terms are defined in
the federal securities laws). The definition of “debt research report” closely followed the
current definition of equity research report—i.e., a communication that includes an analysis
of a debt security and provides information reasonably sufficient upon which to base an
investment decision—and contained the same exceptions currently in place for equity
(e.g., discussions of broad-based indices and commentaries on economic, political or
market conditions).
The revised proposal generally maintains those definitions, but further excludes security-
based swaps from the definition of debt security, given the nascent and evolving nature
of security-based swap regulation. However, FINRA intends to monitor regulatory
developments with respect to security-based swaps and may determine to later include
such securities in the definition of debt security.
In addition to requesting a carve-out for security-based swaps, commenters also asked
FINRA to narrow the definition of debt security to exclude other non-equity securities not
traditionally considered debt securities, as well as agency securities and foreign sovereign
debt of G-20 countries, which commenters likened to treasury and municipal securities.
FINRA has not provided these exclusions in the revised proposal for a variety of reasons.
First, commenters did not provide a rationale to exclude other non-equity securities.
Second, treasury securities are excluded because FINRA is reticent to interfere with the
markets involving direct obligations of the United States. In contrast, FINRA already has
reporting schemes around agency securities and does not think it appropriate to carve
out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities, for example. Municipal securities were
excluded from the proposal in light of FINRA’s jurisdictional limitations with respect to
those securities, so suggestions to exclude other securities as analogous to municipals are
misplaced. FINRA believes an exclusion for foreign sovereign debt of other G-20 countries is
far too broad and that investors would benefit from the proposal’s protections with respect
to research on such securities.
FINRA also has declined a commenter’s suggestion to exclude “trader commentary” and
other analytical communications prepared by non-research personnel. FINRA believes it is
more appropriate to tier the rule based on the sophistication of the recipient rather than
the department of origin of the communication. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act prohibits the
Page 201 of 468

--- PAGE 202 ---
4
Regulatory Notice
February 2012
12-09
latter approach in the equity context, and FINRA believes the reasoning applies equally
with respect to debt research: to exempt all research that emanates outside of the research
department would create a large loophole through which biased and non-transparent
research could be disseminated to retail investors.
The definition of “institutional investor” in the concept proposal was the same as
“institutional account” in FINRA’s suitability rule.3 Thus, the proposed definition generally
covered:
0
0
a bank, savings and loan association, insurance company or registered investment
company;
0
0
an investment adviser registered either with the SEC under Section 203 of
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 or with a state securities commission
(or any agency or office performing like functions); or
0
0
any other entity (whether a natural person, corporation, partnership, trust or
otherwise) with total assets of at least $50 million.
The revised proposal maintains the same core institutional investor definition. FINRA does
not think it appropriate to expand the definition, as one commenter suggested, to include
persons that meet the monetary thresholds of an “accredited investor” under Rule 501 of
SEC Regulation D. FINRA believes the monetary thresholds under the “accredited investor”
standard—among others, various entities with total assets in excess of just $5 million and
individuals with income in excess of $200,000 for the past two years—are far too low as a
proxy for sophistication with respect to debt trading.
Notably, the concept proposal contemplated that persons scoped within the definition
of institutional investor could elect to be treated as a retail investor for the purposes of
these rules. Upon careful consideration, FINRA is now proposing that eligible institutional
investors must consent to receiving institutional debt research that is not subject to
all of the rule’s protections. Thus, the revised proposal requires an otherwise eligible
institutional investor to affirmatively notify the member firm in writing that it wishes to
forego treatment as a retail investor and receive the more limited protections afforded to
debt research distributed only to such institutional customers. FINRA recognizes that not all
institutional investors have equal sophistication or prefer to forego the retail protections.
Accordingly, FINRA believes it most appropriate in this context that investors who want the
full protections of the rules should not be required to take additional steps to receive those
protections.
Page 202 of 468

--- PAGE 203 ---
Regulatory Notice
5
February 2012 12-09
Identifying and Managing Conflicts of Interest
The revised proposal incorporates most of the structural safeguards contemplated by the
concept proposal. In that regard, the revised proposal requires firms to establish, maintain
and enforce policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and manage conflicts
of interest related to (1) the preparation, content and distribution of debt research reports;
(2) public appearances by debt research analysts; and (3) the interaction between debt
research analysts and those outside the research department, including investment
banking, sales and trading and principal trading personnel,4 subject companies and
investors.
Prepublication Review
Those aforementioned policies and procedures must, at a minimum, prohibit pre-
publication review, clearance or approval of debt research by persons involved in
investment banking, sales and trading or principal trading, and either restrict or
prohibit such review and approval by other non-research personnel other than legal
and compliance. They also must prohibit prepublication review of a debt research
report by a subject company, other than for verification of facts.
Coverage
With respect to coverage decisions, the policies and procedures must restrict or limit
input by investment banking, sales and trading and principal trading personnel to ensure
that final determinations are made independently by research management. However,
as discussed below, the provision does not preclude personnel from these or any other
department from conveying customer interests and coverage needs, so long as final
decisions regarding the coverage plan are made by research management.
Solicitation and Marketing of Investment Banking Transactions
The revised proposal further requires firms to restrict or limit activities by debt research
analysts that can reasonably be expected to compromise their objectivity, including
prohibiting participation in solicitations of investment banking business and road shows
and other marketing on behalf of issuers. Moreover, investment banking personnel
may not direct debt research analysts to engage in prohibited marketing efforts or any
communication with a current or prospective customer about an investment banking
services transaction.
Page 203 of 468

--- PAGE 204 ---
6
Regulatory Notice
February 2012
12-09
Supervision
The revised proposal also requires firms to implement policies and procedures reasonably
designed to promote objective and reliable research that reflects the truly held opinions
of debt research analysts and prevent the use of debt research reports or debt analysts
to manipulate or condition the market in favor of the interests of the firm or current or
prospective customers or class of customers.
Those policies and procedures must limit the supervision of debt research analysts
to persons not engaged in investment banking, sales and trading or principal trading
activities. They further require information barriers or other institutional safeguards to
ensure debt analysts are insulated from the review, oversight or pressure from persons
engaged in investment banking or principal trading activities or others who might be
biased in their judgment or supervision.
Budget and Compensation
In addition, the revised proposal limits determination of a firm’s debt research department
budget to senior management, other than persons engaged in investment banking or
principal trading activities, and without consideration of specific revenues or results derived
from such activities. However, the revised proposal expressly permits all persons to provide
input to senior management regarding the demand for and quality of debt research,
including product trends and customer interests. It further allows consideration by senior
management of a firm’s overall revenues and results in determining the debt research
budget and allocation of expenses.
With respect to compensation determinations, the revised proposal requires policies and
procedures to prohibit compensation based on specific investment banking or trading
transactions or contributions to a firm’s investment banking or principal trading activities.
Further, a committee must annually review and approve a debt analyst’s compensation,
taking into consideration productivity and quality of research and the ratings received
from customers and peers independent of the firm’s investment banking department or
persons involved in principal trading activities. Sales and trading personnel, but not persons
engaged in principal trading activities, may give input to research management as part
of the evaluation process, provided that final compensation determinations are made by
research management, subject to review and approval by the compensation committee.
The committee, which may not have representation from investment banking or persons
engaged in principal trading activities, must document the basis for each debt analyst’s
compensation, including any input from sales and trading personnel.
Page 204 of 468

--- PAGE 205 ---
Regulatory Notice
7
February 2012 12-09
Personal Trading
The revised proposal also requires firms to restrict or limit trading by a “debt research
analyst account” in securities, derivatives and funds whose performance is materially
dependent upon the performance of securities covered by the debt analyst. Firm procedures
must ensure that those accounts, supervisors of debt research analysts and associated
persons with the ability to influence the content of debt research reports do not benefit in
their trading from the knowledge of the content or timing of debt research reports before
the intended recipients of such research have a reasonable opportunity to act on the
information in the report. Furthermore, the procedures must generally prohibit a research
analyst account from trading in a manner inconsistent with a debt research analyst’s
most recently published recommendation, except that they may define circumstances
of financial hardship (e.g., unanticipated significant change in the personal financial
circumstances of the beneficial owner of the research analyst account) in which the firm
will permit trading contrary to that recommendation. In determining whether a particular
trade is contrary to an existing recommendation, firms may take into account the context
of a given trade, including the frequency of coverage of the subject security.
Retaliation and Promises of Favorable Research
The revised proposal requires firms to prevent direct or indirect retaliation or threat of
retaliation against debt research analysts by any employee of the firm for publishing
research or making a public appearance that may negatively impact a current or
prospective business interest.
It also prohibits explicit or implicit promises of favorable debt research, specific research
content or a specific rating or recommendation as inducement for the receipt of business
compensation.
Content and Disclosure in Debt Research Reports
With respect to debt research distributed to retail investors, the revised proposal imposes
most of the same disclosure requirements that apply in the equity research context, with
a few modifications (discussed below) to reflect certain differences between the debt and
equity markets.
Recommendations and Ratings
As a predicate matter, the revised proposal requires a firm to ensure that any purported
facts in a debt research report have a reasonable basis. A firm similarly must ensure that
any recommendation or rating has a reasonable basis in fact and is accompanied by a clear
explanation of any valuation method used and a fair presentation of the risks that may
impede achievement of the recommendation or rating. While there is no obligation to
employ a rating system, the revised proposal requires firms that choose to do so to clearly
Page 205 of 468

--- PAGE 206 ---
8
Regulatory Notice
February 2012
12-09
define in each debt research report the meaning of each of its ratings, including the time
horizon or any benchmark on which the rating is based. Moreover, the definition of ratings
must be consistent with their plain meanings; e.g., “hold” cannot mean “sell.”
As with the equity research rules, irrespective of the rating system employed, a firm must
include in each debt research report that includes a rating, the percentage of all securities
rated by the firm that the firm would assign a “buy,” “hold” or “sell” rating, and further
indicate the percentage of subject companies in each of those categories for which the firm
has provided investment banking services within the previous 12 months. That information
must be current as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter, unless the publication
date of the research is less than 15 days after the most recent quarter, in which case the
information must be current as of the second most recent quarter.
Where a firm has rated a debt security for at least one year, the firm also must include
in each debt research report all previously assigned ratings to that security and the
corresponding dates. Unlike the equity research rules, the revised proposal does not
require those ratings to be plotted on a price chart because of limits on price transparency,
including daily closing price information, with respect to many debt securities.
Conflicts Disclosure
The revised proposal includes an overarching provision to require firms to disclose in debt
research reports all conflicts that reasonably could be expected to influence the objectivity
of the debt research report and that are known or should have been known by the firm or
the debt research analyst on the date of publication or distribution of the report, including:
0
0
if the debt research analyst or a member of his or her household has a financial
interest in the debt or equity securities of the subject company and the nature
of such financial interest;
0
0
if the debt research analyst has received compensation based upon (among other
factors) the firm’s investment banking or sales and trading revenues; and
0
0
if the firm managed or co-managed a public offering of securities for the subject
company in the past 12 months, received compensation for investment banking
services from the subject company in the past 12 months, or expects to receive or
intends to seek compensation for investment banking services from the subject
company in the next three months.
The revised proposal also requires disclosure if, as of the end of the month immediately
preceding publication or distribution of a debt research report, the firm or its affiliates
has received non-investment banking compensation from the subject company in the
previous 12 months. Similar to the equity research rules, the revised proposal contains
supplementary material that allows firms to satisfy this disclosure requirement with
respect to affiliate receipt of non-investment banking compensation with policies and
Page 206 of 468

--- PAGE 207 ---
Regulatory Notice
9
February 2012 12-09
procedures reasonably designed to prevent debt research analysts and persons with the
ability to influence the content of debt research reports from receiving information about
receipt of such compensation, unless the debt research analyst has actual knowledge of an
affiliate receiving subject company compensation during the applicable time period. The
revised proposal also requires disclosure if, over the 12-month period preceding publication
or distribution of a debt research report, the subject company has been a client of the firm
and the types of services provided to the subject company.
The revised proposal further requires disclosure if the firm trades or may trade as principal
in the debt securities (or in related derivatives) that are the subject of the debt research
report. This provision is analogous to the equity rule requirement to disclose market
making activity. Additionally, the proposal mandates disclosure if the debt research analyst
received any compensation from the subject company in the previous 12 months. Finally,
there is an omnibus provision requiring disclosure of “any other material conflict of interest
of the debt research analyst or firm that the debt research analyst or an associated person
of the firm with the ability to influence the content of a debt research report knows or has
reason to know” at the time of the publication or distribution of a debt research report.
This “reason to know” standard does not impose a duty of inquiry on the debt analyst or
others who can influence the content of a debt research report. Instead, as with the equity
research rules, it covers disclosure of those conflicts that should reasonably be discovered in
the ordinary course of business.
The concept proposal would have required firms to disclose if the firm or its affiliates
“maintain a significant financial interest in the debt or equity of the subject company,”
including, at a minimum, if the firm or its affiliates beneficially own 1 percent or more of
any class of common equity securities of the subject company. Commenters expressed
concern that firms do not have systems to track such ownership and that the number and
complexity of bonds, together with the fact that a firm may be both long and short bonds
of the same issuer, make it difficult to have real-time disclosure of a firm’s credit exposure.
In response to these comments, the revised proposal has deleted that specific disclosure
provision; rather, it requires disclosure in a debt research report of a firm’s or its affiliate’s
debt or equity positions in the subject company only where the positions amount to a
material conflict of interest that the debt research analyst or a person with ability to
influence the content of a research report knows or has reason to know at the time of
publication or distribution of the debt research report. A similar standard would also
apply to disclosure in public appearances. This modification recognizes the difficulty in
establishing a standard for materiality of debt holdings given the fungibility of issuer bond
offerings and the possibility that a firm may have offsetting short positions. It further
reflects that a significant equity position (1 percent) in the subject company of a debt
research report may not be material depending on the type of debt security that is the
subject of the report. Accordingly, the proposal sharpens the focus of disclosure of equity
and debt holdings to those facts and circumstances where such holdings may reasonably
Page 207 of 468

--- PAGE 208 ---
10
Regulatory Notice
February 2012
12-09
be expected to influence the objectivity of the debt research report. FINRA notes that
because disclosure would be limited to instances when the debt research analyst or a
person with the ability to influence the content of a debt research report knows or has
reason to know of such material conflict of interest, a firm could choose to wall off those
persons as an alternative to tracking and disclosing such interests.
The revised proposal also provides that disclosures need not be made if they would
reveal material non-public information regarding specific potential investment banking
transactions of the subject company.
Termination of Coverage
The concept proposal included a parallel provision to the equity rules that would have
required a firm to promptly notify its customers if it intends to terminate coverage in a
debt security and include with the notice a final research report. If it were impracticable
to provide such final report, the concept proposal would have required a firm to disclose
to customers its reason for terminating coverage. FINRA recognizes that firms may have
an extensive coverage universe of debt securities that may only be the subject of episodic
research coverage. As such, FINRA believes the termination of coverage provision in the
debt context would be overly burdensome to firms relative to its investor protection value
and therefore has eliminated the provision from this revised proposal.
Public Appearances
The revised proposal closely parallels the equity research rules with respect to disclosure
in public appearances, with the exception referenced above regarding disclosure of
firm holdings of the equity of the subject company. Thus, the revised proposal requires
disclosure by debt research analysts in public appearances:
0
0
of the analyst and his or her household member’s financial interest in the subject
company;
0
0
if the analyst knows or has reason to know that the firm or any affiliate received
compensation from the subject company in the previous 12 months;
0
0
if the debt analyst received compensation from the subject company in the previous
12 months;
0
0
if the analyst knows or has reason to know that the subject company has been a
client in the previous 12 months and the nature of services provided; and
0
0
of any other material conflict of interest of the debt research analyst or firm that
the analyst knows or has reason to know at the time of the public appearance.
There is no disclosure obligation where doing so would reveal material non-public
information regarding specific potential future investment banking transactions. Firms
must maintain records of public appearances sufficient to demonstrate compliance with
the disclosure requirements.
Page 208 of 468

--- PAGE 209 ---
Regulatory Notice
11
February 2012 12-09
Standards Applicable to Research Distributed to Institutional
Investors
The revised proposal generally maintains the construct of the concept proposal, effectively
allowing institutional investors to be treated as counterparties in many regards. As
such, the revised proposal exempts research distributed solely to eligible institutional
investors (institutional debt research) from most of the provisions regarding supervision,
coverage determination, budget and compensation determination and all of the disclosure
requirements applicable to debt research reports distributed to retail investors (retail
debt research).
Despite expressly inviting comment on the topic in the concept proposal, FINRA staff
received no comments on the relative merits of an opt-in versus an opt-out approach to
the institutional framework. Some commenters, however, asserted that institutions should
have no option to be treated as retail investors, while other commenters argued against
any tiered treatment of research distributed to institutions. FINRA continues to believe
a narrowly tailored exemption for institutional debt research is appropriate. However,
FINRA again invites comment on whether this aspect of the revised proposal strikes the
appropriate balance between investor protection and the needs of market participants.
FINRA notes that no firm would be obligated to create or maintain a retail debt research
product—a firm may choose to offer debt research only to those eligible persons that
opt in to the institutional framework.
Certain provisions still will apply to debt research distributed to eligible institutional
investors, including the prohibition on prepublication review of debt research reports by
investment banking personnel and the restrictions on such review by subject companies.
In addition, firms still must prohibit debt research analysts from participating in the
solicitation of investment banking services transactions, road shows and other marketing
on behalf of issuers and further prohibit investment banking personnel from directly or
indirectly directing a debt research analyst to engage in sales and marketing efforts related
to an investment banking deal or communicate with a current or prospective customer
with respect to such transactions. The provisions regarding retaliation against debt
research analysts and promises of favorable debt research also still apply with respect to
research distributed to eligible institutional investors.
While the revised proposal does not require institutional debt research to carry the specific
disclosures applicable to retail debt research, it does require that such research carry
general disclosures prominently on the first page warning that (1) the report is intended
only for institutional investors and does not carry all of the independence and disclosure
standards of retail debt research reports; (2) if applicable, that the views in the report may
differ from the views offered in retail debt research reports; and (3) if applicable, that the
report may not be independent of the firm’s propriety interests and that the firm trades for
its own account and for certain customers, and such trading interests may be contrary to
any recommendation in the report.
Page 209 of 468

--- PAGE 210 ---
12
Regulatory Notice
February 2012
12-09
Additionally, the revised proposal requires firms to implement policies and procedures
reasonably designed to ensure that institutional debt research is made available only to
eligible institutional investors. A firm may not rely on the exemptions for institutional debt
research if it has reason to believe the research will be redistributed to a retail investor.
Thus, if despite having in place reasonably designed policies and procedures, a firm learns
that institutional debt research has routinely been redistributed to retail investors, the
firm must discontinue distribution of institutional only debt research to that party until it
reasonably concludes that measures have been taken to prevent future redistribution.
Communications Between Debt Research Analysts and Trading
Desk Personnel
The concept proposal delineated certain permissible and prohibited communications
between debt research and sales and trading personnel. The former were intended to
allow those communications essential to the discharge of the primary functions of debt
analysts and sales and trading personnel; more specifically, the need for debt analysts
to obtain from trading personnel information relevant to a valuation analysis and for
trading personnel to obtain from debt analysts information regarding the creditworthiness
of an issuer. In addition, the concept proposal recognized the need to communicate
regarding coverage decisions, given the vast universe of debt instruments. The prohibited
communications, on the other hand, were intended to prevent undue influence on debt
analysts to generate or conform research to a firm’s proprietary trading interests or those
of particular customers.
Many commenters suggested the prohibitions were too restrictive. In particular,
commenters suggested that sales and trading personnel should be able to communicate
customer interests to debt research analysts and that debt research analysts should not be
precluded from generating trade ideas and strategies that were not contained in currently
published research.
In response, the revised proposal clarifies in supplementary material the permissible
interactions between debt research and sales and trading and principal trading personnel,
specifically that (1) sales and trading and principal trading personnel may communicate
customers’ interests to research personnel, so long as debt research analysts do not
respond by publishing research that is intended to benefit any trading position of the firm,
a customer or a class of customers; and (2) debt research analysts may provide customized
analysis and recommendations or trade ideas to sales and trading and principal trading
personnel and customers, provided that any such communications are not inconsistent
with the analyst’s currently published or pending research and that any subsequent
research is not for the purpose of benefiting any firm or customer positions.5
Page 210 of 468

--- PAGE 211 ---
Regulatory Notice
13
February 2012 12-09
The revised proposal maintains the general prohibition against sales and trading and
principal trading personnel attempting to influence a debt research analyst’s opinions or
views for the purpose of benefiting the trading position of the firm, a customer or a class
of customers. It further prohibits debt research analysts from identifying or recommending
specific potential trading transactions to sales and trading or principal trading personnel
that are inconsistent with such debt research analyst’s currently published debt research
reports and from disclosing the timing of, or material investment conclusions in, a pending
debt research report.
Distribution of Member and Third-Party Research Reports
The revised proposal requires firms to establish, maintain and enforce policies and
procedures reasonably designed to ensure that a firm does not selectively distribute a
debt research report to trading personnel or a particular customer or class of customers
in advance of other customers that are entitled to receive the debt research report. The
revised proposal includes supplementary material explaining that this provision does not
preclude offering different research products to different customers, as long as the product
is not differentiated only by the timing of receipt of recommendations, ratings or other
potential market-moving information.
The revised proposal also sets out the requirements for the review and distribution of
third-party research. It generally incorporates the current standards for third-party equity
research, including the distinction between independent and non-independent third-party
research with respect to the review and disclosure requirements. In short, a firm need
not review independent third-party debt research prior to distribution and may not have
to include certain otherwise applicable disclosures depending on whether the research
is “distributed” or “made available.” Firms must have procedures to ensure that non-
independent third-party debt research, including affiliate research, contains no untrue
statement of material fact and is not otherwise false or misleading. Such review extends
to false or misleading information that should be known from a reading of the report or
is actually known based on other information the firm possesses. Prior approval is not
required; the review procedures can be risk-based.
The revised proposal further requires that firms ensure that third-party research is clearly
labeled as such, is reliable and objective and discloses any material conflict of interest that
can reasonably be expected to have influenced the choice of third-party research provider
or the subject company of a third-party debt research report.
Page 211 of 468

--- PAGE 212 ---
14
Regulatory Notice
February 2012
12-09
Exemption for Members With Limited Investment Banking
Activity
The revised proposal exempts from certain provisions regarding supervision and
compensation of debt research analysts those firms that over the previous three years,
on average per year, have participated in 10 or fewer investment banking services
transactions as manager or co-manager and generated $5 million or less in gross
investment banking revenues from those transactions. This is the same metric used for an
exemption from certain provisions of the equity research rules. However, FINRA specifically
requests comment on whether there is a more appropriate metric for an exemption
in the debt research context, one that focuses not necessarily on the size of firms, but
on the circumstances where the conflicts related to debt research are less pronounced.
For example, such an exemption could be based on limited principal trading activity or
revenues generated from debt trading. FINRA encourages commenters to include specific
metrics for any proposed exemption.
Supplementary Material
The revised proposal contains supplementary material to provide guidance on various
provisions. In addition to the communications between research and trading and the
disclosure of non-investment banking services compensation discussed above, the
supplementary material addresses:
0
0
prohibitions on information in pitch materials;
0
0
prohibitions on joint due diligence conducted with an issuer in the presence of
investment banking personnel;
0
0
restrictions on communications with customers and internal personnel;
0
0
submission of sections of a draft debt research report for factual review;
0
0
persons with the ability to influence the content of a research report; and
0
0
obligations of persons associated with a member firm with respect to provisions that
require the firm to have policies and procedures restricting or prohibiting certain
conduct.
Request for Comment
FINRA welcomes all comments on the revised proposal. The comment period expires on
April 2, 2012.
Page 212 of 468

--- PAGE 213 ---
Regulatory Notice
15
February 2012 12-09
© 2012 FINRA. All rights reserved. FINRA and other trademarks of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
may not be used without permission. Regulatory Notices attempt to present information to readers in a format
that is easily understandable. However, please be aware that, in case of any misunderstanding, the rule language
prevails.
1.
FINRA will not edit personal identifying
information, such as names or email addresses,
from submissions. Persons should submit
only information that they wish to make
publicly available. See Notice to Members 03-73
(November 2003) (NASD Announces Online
Availability of Comments) for more information.
2.
See SEA Section 19 and the rules thereunder.
After a proposed rule change is filed with the SEC,
the proposed rule change generally is published
for public comment in the Federal Register.
Certain limited types of proposed rule changes,
however, take effect upon filing with the SEC.
See SEA Section 19(b)(3) and SEA Rule 19b-4.
3.
See Securities Exchange Act Release No.
63325 (November 17, 2010), 75 FR 71479
(November 23, 2010) (Order Approving File No.
SR-FINRA-2010-039 to adopt FINRA Rule 2111
(Suitability) in the consolidated FINRA rulebook).
4.
FINRA notes that the revised proposal introduces
a distinction between sales and trading
personnel—institutional sales representatives
and sales traders—and persons engaged in
principal trading activities, where the conflicts
addressed by the proposal are most concerning.
5.
In assessing whether a debt research analyst’s
permissible communications with sales and
trading and principal trading personnel and
customers are “inconsistent” with the analyst’s
published research, a firm may consider the
context, including that the investment objectives
or time horizons being discussed differ from
those underlying the analyst’s published views.
Endnotes
Page 213 of 468

--- PAGE 214 ---
1
Regulatory Notice
12-42
October 2012
Executive Summary
FINRA seeks comment on a revised proposal addressing debt research conflicts
of interest that includes amended exemptions for research distributed to
certain institutional investors and for firms with limited principal debt trading
activity. The revised proposal also includes other changes in response to
comments on the prior proposal set forth in Regulatory Notice 12-09.
The text of the proposed rule can be found at www.finra.org/notices/12-42.
Questions concerning this Notice should be directed to:
0
0
Philip Shaikun, Associate Vice President, Office of General Counsel (OGC),
at (202) 728-8451; and
0
0
Racquel Russell, Assistant General Counsel, OGC, at (202) 728-8363.
Action Requested
FINRA encourages all interested parties to comment on the proposal.
Comments must be received by December 10, 2012.
Member firms and other interested parties can submit their comments
using the following methods:
0
0
Emailing comments to pubcom@finra.org; or
0
0
Mailing comments in hard copy to:
Marcia E. Asquith
Office of the Corporate Secretary
FINRA
1735 K Street, NW
Washington, DC 20006-1506
Debt Research
FINRA Requests Comment on a Revised Proposal
to Identify and Manage Conflicts Involving the
Preparation and Distribution of Debt Research Reports
Comment Period Expires: December 10, 2012
Suggested Routing
0
0 Compliance
0
0 Fixed Income
0
0 Investment Banking
0
0 Legal
0
0 Research
0
0 Senior Management
0
0 Trading
Key Topics
0
0 Conflicts of Interest
0
0 Fixed Income
0
0 Research
0
0 Trading
Referenced Rules and Notices
0
0 FINRA Rule 2111
0
0 FINRA Rule 4512
0
0 NASD IM-2440-2
0
0 NASD Rule 2711
0
0 Regulatory Notice 11-11
0
0 Regulatory Notice 12-09
Page 214 of 468

--- PAGE 215 ---
2
Regulatory Notice
October 2012
12-42
To help FINRA process and review comments more efficiently, persons should use only one
method to comment on the proposal.
Important Notes: The only comments that FINRA will consider are those submitted
pursuant to the methods described above. All comments received in response to this
Notice will be made available to the public on the FINRA website. Generally, FINRA will
post comments as they are received.1
Before becoming effective, a proposed rule change must be authorized for filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by the FINRA Board of Governors, and then
must be filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (SEA).2
Background and Discussion
In February 2012, FINRA requested comment on a proposal to address debt research
conflicts of interest. That proposal, set out in Regulatory Notice 12-09, generally provided
retail customers with the same extensive protections provided to recipients of equity
research, while exempting debt research distributed solely to eligible institutional
investors (institutional debt research) from many of those structural protections, as well
as prescriptive disclosure requirements.
The proposal defined “institutional investor” as an “institutional account” in FINRA Rule
4512(c).3 Eligible institutional investors were required to affirmatively notify a member
firm in writing if they wished to receive institutional debt research and forego the “retail”
protections of the rule.
The proposal also included an exemption from the review, supervision, budget and
compensation provisions for broker-dealers that engage in limited investment banking
activity. The Notice further asked for input on a potential exemption for firms with limited
principal trading activity or revenues generated from debt trading.
In response to comments and other industry feedback, FINRA has revised the proposed
exemptions as detailed below. FINRA invites comment on the scope and content of each
of the proposed exemptions and specifically requests cost/benefit data to help assess the
appropriateness of those exemptions or any alternatives.
Institutional Debt Research Exemption
Several commenters raised issues regarding the provision that requires otherwise eligible
institutional investors to affirmatively elect to receive institutional debt research. These
commenters asserted that the provision is unnecessarily burdensome and may result in
excluding a significant number of institutional investors from receiving the debt research
that they receive today.
Page 215 of 468

--- PAGE 216 ---
Regulatory Notice
3
October 2012 12-42
In response, FINRA is proposing to establish a higher tier of institutional investors that
could receive institutional debt research without their written agreement. Instead, the
broker-dealer could obtain agreement by way of negative consent, if the institutional
investor chose not to notify the firm that it wishes to be treated as a retail investor. The
higher tier exemption would be available to an institutional investor that:
1.
meets the definition of Qualified Institutional Buyer (QIB);4 and
2.
satisfies the new FINRA Rule 2111 institutional suitability standards that require
that:
i.
the member firm has a reasonable basis to believe that the institutional
investor is capable of evaluating investment risks independently, both in
general and with regard to particular transactions and investment strategies
involving a “debt security” or “debt securities,” as defined in the proposed debt
research rules; and
ii.
the QIB has affirmatively indicated that it is exercising independent judgment
in evaluating the firm’s recommendations pursuant to the suitability rule,
provided such affirmation covers transactions in debt securities.
The affirmation need not specify transactions in debt securities but must be broad enough
to fairly encompass such transactions.
Other institutional investors that meet the definition of FINRA Rule 4512(c) but do not
satisfy the higher tier requirements could still affirmatively elect in writing to receive
institutional debt research. Retail investors could not choose to receive institutional debt
research.
FINRA believes that this approach responds to commenters’ concerns by maintaining the
flow of debt research to a substantial number of institutional investors and allowing firms
to leverage existing compliance efforts, while ensuring that those investors who receive
institutional debt research through negative consent have a high level of sophistication
and experience in evaluating transactions involving debt securities. FINRA notes that
its current mark-up policy exempts transactions with a QIB that is purchasing or selling
a non-investment-grade debt security when the dealer has determined that the QIB
has the capacity to evaluate independently the investment risk and in fact is exercising
independent judgment in deciding to enter into the transaction.5
FINRA requests comment on this approach. In particular, FINRA asks the following:
0
0
To what extent can firms use existing compliance systems and procedures to identify
and track persons that meet the proposed higher tier requirements?
Page 216 of 468

--- PAGE 217 ---
4
Regulatory Notice
October 2012
12-42
0
0
Is there another higher tier standard that strikes a more appropriate balance between
(1) protecting potentially vulnerable investors in debt securities and (2) maintaining
information flow—and minimizing the burdens and costs of distributing debt
research—to sophisticated institutional investors?
0
0
For example, should FINRA instead adopt a higher tier consisting of persons that satisfy
both the definition of Rule 4512(c) and the institutional suitability requirements in Rule
2111 as applied to debt securities without needing to satisfy the QIB standard? If so,
why is that a more appropriate standard?
0
0
What would be the advantages and disadvantages and costs and benefits associated
with FINRA’s proposed approach or an alternative? How would it affect competition
among firms and among institutional investors? How would it affect investment
performance? How effectively would it protect investors from the negative effects of
conflicts in debt research?
Exemption for Firms With Limited Principal Debt Trading Activity
The revised proposal includes for the first time an exemption for firms with limited
principal debt trading activity. The exemption extends to firms that have (1) gains or losses
(in absolute value) of less than $15 million from principal debt trading activity on average
over the previous three years and (2) fewer than 10 debt traders. Firms that satisfy these
criteria would be exempt from provisions that require separation between debt research
analysts and those engaged in sales and trading and principal trading activities with
respect to pre-publication review of debt research, supervision and compensation of debt
research analysts and debt research budget determination.
In crafting the exemption, FINRA sought a rational principal debt trading revenue threshold
for small firms where the conflicts addressed by the proposal might be minimized. FINRA
further considered the ability of firms with limited personnel to comply with the provisions
that require effective separation of principal debt trading and debt research activities.
To those ends, FINRA reviewed and analyzed available TRACE and FOCUS data, particularly
with respect to small firms (150 or fewer registered representatives). FINRA supplemented
its analysis with survey results from 72 geographically diverse small firms that engage in
principal debt trading in varying magnitudes. The survey sought more specific information
on the nature of the firms’ debt trading—the breakdown between trading in corporate
versus municipal securities (which are excepted from the proposal) and the amount of
“riskless principal” trading—as well as the number of debt traders, whether any of those
traders write research or market commentary, and the prospective ability of firms to
comply with the proposal’s structural separation requirements.
Based on the data, FINRA analyzed the range of principal debt revenues generated by small
firms and determined that $15 million would be a reasonable threshold for the exemption.6
However, because the revenue figure represents a net gain or loss (in absolute terms) from
Page 217 of 468

--- PAGE 218 ---
Regulatory Notice
5
October 2012 12-42
principal debt trading activity, the potential exists that a firm with substantial trading
operations could have an anomalous year that yields net revenues under the threshold.
Therefore, FINRA added as a backstop the second criterion of having fewer than 10 debt
traders to ensure the exemption applies only to firms with modest debt trading activity.
Furthermore, based on our assessment, firms with 10 or more debt traders are more
capable of dedicating a debt trader to writing research. FINRA notes that only eight of the
72 responding survey firms indicated that they have debt traders that write either research
or market commentary—which is excepted from the definition of “debt research report”
under the proposal—on debt securities.
For the purposes of the exemption, a debt trader is defined as “a person, with respect to
transactions in debt securities, who is engaged in proprietary trading or the execution of
transactions on an agency basis.” Firms that rely on the exemption must document the
basis for their eligibility and maintain for a period of not less than three years records of any
communication that, but for this exemption, would be subject to the prohibitions regarding
pre-publication review by sales and trading and principal trading personnel.
FINRA requests comment on this proposed exemption. In particular, FINRA asks the
following:
0
0
Are gains and losses (in absolute value) from principal debt trading and number of
debt traders the appropriate criteria to establish an exemption from the provisions
that require separation of debt research and sales and trading and principal trading
activities?
0
0
Are the thresholds of less than $15 million in principal debt trading revenues and fewer
than 10 debt traders the appropriate metrics to be eligible for the exemption?
0
0
What would be the advantages and disadvantages and costs and benefits associated
with FINRA’s proposed approach or an alternative? How would it affect competition
among firms? To what extent would investors dealing with exempt firms be harmed
by receiving unreliable conflicted research? We request quantifications of impacts
described by commenters where available.
Exemption for Firms With Limited Investment Banking Activity
The revised proposal maintains an exemption imported from the equity research rules for
firms that engage in limited investment banking activity. Specifically, it excludes those
firms that during the previous three years, on average per year, have participated in 10 or
fewer investment banking services transactions as manager or co-manager and generated
$5 million or less in gross investment banking revenues from those transactions. The
proposal exempts eligible firms from provisions that require separation between debt
research analysts and investment banking personnel with respect to pre-publication
review of debt research, supervision and compensation of debt research analysts and debt
research budget determination.
Page 218 of 468

--- PAGE 219 ---
6
Regulatory Notice
October 2012
12-42
FINRA reviewed and analyzed deal data for calendar years 2009 through 2011 to determine
whether it should make any adjustments to these exemption standards. The review
included firms that either managed or co-managed deals and earned underwriting
revenues from those transactions during the review period. The analysis found that 155
such firms—or 49 percent—would have been eligible for the exemption. The data further
suggested that incremental upward adjustments to the exemption thresholds would
not result in a significant number of additional firms eligible for the exemption. As such,
FINRA believes the current exemption produces a reasonable and appropriate universe of
exempted firms.
FINRA requests comment on this proposed exemption. In particular, FINRA asks the
following:
0
0
Are the criteria and thresholds appropriate?
0
0
What would be the advantages and disadvantages and costs and benefits associated
with maintaining FINRA’s proposed approach or an alternative? How would it affect
competition among firms? To what extent would investors dealing with exempt firms
be harmed by receiving unreliable conflicted research? We request quantifications of
impacts described by commenters where available.
Other Changes
The revised proposal also makes clarifying and conforming changes in response to
comments received on the proposal in Regulatory Notice 12-09. These include:
0
0
Definition of “debt research report”—conforms the definition of “debt research report”
to the SEC’s Regulation Analyst Certification definition and clarifies that the definition
covers an analysis of either a debt security or an issuer and excludes reports on types or
characteristics of debt securities. The proposal also includes all of the exceptions to the
definition in the rule text.
0
0
Disclosure of Conflicts—requires disclosure of material conflicts that are known or
should have been known by the member firm or debt analyst at the time of publication
or distribution of the report. This standard replaces the requirement in the previous
proposal to disclose “all conflicts that reasonably could be expected to influence the
objectivity of the debt research report.”
0
0
Compensation Disclosure for Foreign Sovereign Debt—provides that, in lieu of
disclosing investment banking compensation received by a non-U.S. affiliate from
foreign sovereigns, firms may instead implement information barriers between that
affiliate and the debt research department to prevent direct or indirect receipt of
such information. However, disclosure still is required if the debt analyst has actual
knowledge of receipt of investment banking compensation by the non-U.S. affiliate.
Page 219 of 468

--- PAGE 220 ---
Regulatory Notice
7
October 2012 12-42
0
0
Road Show Prohibition—clarifies that the prohibition applies only with respect to road
shows and other marketing activities on behalf of an issuer “related to an investment
banking services transaction.”
0
0
Prohibition on Joint Due Diligence—deletes the provision that prohibited joint due
diligence by debt research analysts and investment banking personnel, conforming to
the equity research rules and a change to the Global Settlement.
0
0
Valuation Method Disclosure—requires explanation of “valuation method used” only
where a specific valuation method has been employed.
0
0
Research Analyst Interactions with Sales and Trading—adds clarifying language to the
rule text that, in determining what is inconsistent with an analyst’s published research,
firms may consider the context, including that the investment objectives or time
horizons being discussed differ from those underlying the analyst’s published views.7
Request for Comment
FINRA requests comments on the revised proposal. We specifically request comments on
the economic impact and expected beneficial results of the entire proposal, including the
portions proposed previously and not amended in this proposal. Are the proposals well
designed to reduce conflicts arising in current preparation of debt research? Are the costs
imposed by the rule justified by the concerns arising from the potential for debt research?
How will the rule change business practices and competition among firms underwriting
and trading debt instruments, whether U.S. or non-U.S. based? What second order impacts
could result? We request quantified comments where possible.
Page 220 of 468

--- PAGE 221 ---
8
Regulatory Notice
October 2012
12-42
Endnotes
1.
FINRA will not edit personal identifying
information, such as names or email addresses,
from submissions. Persons should submit
only information that they wish to make
publicly available. See Notice to Members 03-73
(November 2003) (NASD Announces Online
Availability of Comments) for more information.
2.
See SEA Section 19 and the rules thereunder.
After a proposed rule change is filed with the SEC,
the proposed rule change generally is published
for public comment in the Federal Register.
Certain limited types of proposed rule changes,
however, take effect upon filing with the SEC. See
SEA Section 19(b)(3) and SEA Rule 19b-4.
3.
Thus, the proposed definition would cover: (a)
a bank, savings and loan association, insurance
company or registered investment company;
(b) an investment adviser registered either with
the SEC under Section 203 of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 or with a state securities
commission (or any agency or office performing
like functions); or (c) any other entity (whether
a natural person, corporation, partnership, trust,
or otherwise) with total assets of at least $50
million.
4.
A QIB includes an entity acting for its own
account or that of another QIB, that owns and
invests on a discretionary basis at least $100
million in the securities of unaffiliated entities.
It also includes: a dealer that owns or invests
on a discretionary basis at least $10 million
in unaffiliated securities; a dealer acting in a
riskless principal capacity on behalf of a QIB;
a registered investment company that is part
of a family that owns at least $100 million in
unaffiliated securities; and a bank, savings and
loan association or foreign bank that owns or
invests $100 million in unaffiliated securities
and has audited net worth of at least $25 million.
See Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933.
5.
See NASD IM-2440-2.
6.
FINRA made reasoned assumptions regarding
principal debt trading revenues where data
was unavailable or incomplete. For example,
many small firms report trading revenues on
FOCUS Part IIA, which has a single line item for
combined debt and equity trading. Many of the
firms surveyed provided an actual or estimated
breakdown of their debt and equity trading
revenues. In other circumstances, FINRA assumed
for the purposes of the analysis that all of the
reported revenues on that line item came from
debt trading. This underestimates the population
of firms eligible for the exemption.
7.
See Regulatory Notice 11-11 (FINRA Requests
Comment on Concept Proposal to Identify and
Manage Conflicts Involving the Preparation
and Distribution of Debt Research Reports) at
note 12.
Page 221 of 468

--- PAGE 222 ---
Page 222 of 468

Exhibit 2b
Alphabetical List of Written Comments
Regulatory Notice 12-09
1.
Ryan K. Bakhtiari, Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association (April 12, 2012)
2.
Chris Charles, Wulff, Hansen & Co. (April 5, 2012)
3.
Ira D. Hammerman, SIFMA (April 2, 2012)
4.
Amy Natterson Kroll, Bingham McCutchen LLP (April 10, 2012)
5.
Michael Nicholas, Bond Dealers of America (April 2, 2012)
6.
Lee A. Pickard and William D. Edick, Pickard and Djinis LLP (April 2, 2012)

7.
Joseph R.V. Romano, Romano Brothers & Co. (March 31, 2012)

--- PAGE 223 ---
Page 223 of 468

Alphabetical List of Written Comments
Regulatory Notice 12-42
1.
Michael Nicholas, Bond Dealers of America (December 20, 2012)

2.
Lee A. Pickard and William D. Edick, Pickard and Djinis LLP (December 20,
2012)

3.
Kurt N. Schacht and Linda L. Rittenhouse, CFA Institute (December 7, 2012)

4.
Robert J. Stracks, BMO Capital Markets (December 20, 2012)

5.
Kevin A. Zambrowicz, SIFMA (January 4, 2013)

--- PAGE 224 ---
Exhibit 2c
Page 224 of 468

--- PAGE 225 ---
Page 225 of 468

--- PAGE 226 ---
Page 226 of 468

--- PAGE 227 ---
Page 227 of 468

--- PAGE 228 ---
Page 228 of 468

--- PAGE 229 ---
Page 229 of 468

--- PAGE 230 ---
Page 230 of 468

--- PAGE 231 ---
Page 231 of 468

--- PAGE 232 ---
Page 232 of 468

--- PAGE 233 ---
Page 233 of 468

--- PAGE 234 ---
Page 234 of 468

--- PAGE 235 ---
Page 235 of 468

--- PAGE 236 ---
Page 236 of 468

--- PAGE 237 ---
Page 237 of 468

--- PAGE 238 ---
Page 238 of 468

--- PAGE 239 ---
Page 239 of 468

--- PAGE 240 ---
Page 240 of 468

--- PAGE 241 ---
Page 241 of 468

--- PAGE 242 ---
Page 242 of 468

--- PAGE 243 ---
Page 243 of 468

--- PAGE 244 ---
Page 244 of 468

--- PAGE 245 ---
Page 245 of 468

--- PAGE 246 ---
Page 246 of 468

--- PAGE 247 ---
Page 247 of 468

--- PAGE 248 ---
Page 248 of 468

--- PAGE 249 ---
Page 249 of 468

--- PAGE 250 ---
Page 250 of 468

--- PAGE 251 ---
Page 251 of 468

--- PAGE 252 ---
Page 252 of 468

--- PAGE 253 ---
Page 253 of 468

--- PAGE 254 ---
Page 254 of 468

--- PAGE 255 ---
Page 255 of 468

--- PAGE 256 ---
Page 256 of 468

--- PAGE 257 ---
Page 257 of 468

--- PAGE 258 ---
Page 258 of 468

--- PAGE 259 ---
Page 259 of 468

--- PAGE 260 ---
Page 260 of 468

--- PAGE 261 ---
Page 261 of 468

--- PAGE 262 ---
Page 262 of 468

--- PAGE 263 ---
Page 263 of 468

--- PAGE 264 ---
Page 264 of 468

--- PAGE 265 ---
Page 265 of 468

--- PAGE 266 ---
Page 266 of 468

--- PAGE 267 ---
Page 267 of 468

--- PAGE 268 ---
Page 268 of 468

--- PAGE 269 ---
Page 269 of 468

--- PAGE 270 ---
Page 270 of 468

--- PAGE 271 ---
Page 271 of 468

--- PAGE 272 ---
Page 272 of 468

--- PAGE 273 ---
Page 273 of 468

--- PAGE 274 ---
Page 274 of 468

--- PAGE 275 ---
Page 275 of 468

--- PAGE 276 ---
Page 276 of 468

--- PAGE 277 ---
Page 277 of 468

--- PAGE 278 ---
Page 278 of 468

--- PAGE 279 ---
Page 279 of 468

--- PAGE 280 ---
Page 280 of 468

--- PAGE 281 ---
Page 281 of 468

--- PAGE 282 ---
Page 282 of 468

--- PAGE 283 ---
Page 283 of 468

--- PAGE 284 ---
Page 284 of 468

--- PAGE 285 ---
Page 285 of 468

--- PAGE 286 ---
Page 286 of 468

--- PAGE 287 ---
Page 287 of 468

--- PAGE 288 ---
1
Regulatory Notice
11-11
March 2011
Notice Type
0
0 Request for Comment
Suggested Routing
0
0 Compliance
0
0 Fixed Income
0
0 Investment Banking
0
0 Legal
0
0 Research
0
0 Senior Management
0
0 Trading
Key Topics
0
0 Conflicts of Interest
0
0 Fixed Income
0
0 Research
0
0 Trading
Referenced Rules & Notices
0
0 FINRA Rule 2010
0
0 FINRA Rule 2020
0
0 NASD Rule 2711
0
0 NTM 06-36
0
0 Regulatory Notice 08-55
0
0 SEC Regulation AC
Debt Research Reports
FINRA Requests Comment on Concept Proposal
to Identify and Manage Conflicts Involving the
Preparation and Distribution of Debt Research Reports
Comment Period Expires: April 25, 2011
Executive Summary
FINRA seeks comment on a concept proposal to apply objectivity safeguards
and disclosure requirements to the publication and distribution of debt
research reports. The proposal has a tiered approach that generally would
provide retail debt research recipients with most of the same protections
provided to recipients of equity research, while exempting debt research
provided solely to institutional investors from many of those provisions.
Questions concerning this Notice should be directed to:
0
0
Philip Shaikun, Associate Vice President, Office of General Counsel (OGC),
at (202) 728-8451; and
0
0
Racquel Russell, Assistant General Counsel, OGC, at (202) 728-8363.
Action Requested
FINRA encourages all interested parties to comment on the proposal.
Comments must be received by April 25, 2011.
Member firms and other interested parties can submit their comments
using the following methods:
0
0
Emailing comments to pubcom@finra.org; or
0
0
Mailing comments in hard copy to:
Marcia E. Asquith
Office of the Corporate Secretary
FINRA
1735 K Street, NW
Washington, DC 20006-1506
Exhibit 3a
Page 288 of 468

--- PAGE 289 ---
2
Regulatory Notice
March 2011
11-11
To help FINRA process and review comments more efficiently, persons should use only
one method to comment on the proposal.
Important Notes: The only comments that FINRA will consider are those submitted
pursuant to the methods described above. All comments received in response to this
Notice will be made available to the public on the FINRA website. Generally, FINRA will
post comments on its site one week after the end of the comment period.1
Before becoming effective, a proposed rule change must be authorized for filing with the
SEC by the FINRA Board of Governors, and then must be approved by the SEC, following
publication for public comment in the Federal Register.2
Background and Discussion
FINRA has long been monitoring firms’ management of conflicts of interest related to the
publication and distribution of debt research. In a 2005 report3 to the SEC, legacy NASD
and the NYSE indicated that they would examine the extent to which firms voluntarily
adopted the Guiding Principles of the Bond Market Association (BMA).4 The self-regulatory
organizations (SROs) subsequently surveyed certain firms’ debt research supervisory
systems and found many instances where firms failed to adhere to the Guiding Principles.
More significantly, the SROs found certain cases where firms lacked any policies and
procedures to manage debt research conflicts to ensure compliance with applicable
SRO ethical and anti-fraud rules. Those findings were published in Notice to Members
(NTM) 06-365 as a means to prompt better conflict management, but FINRA expressly
noted that it would continue to consider more definitive rulemaking that might differ
from or expand on the Guiding Principles.
The staff believes now is the appropriate time to engage in such definitive rulemaking.
Among other things, the staff has observed increased retail investment risk in complex
debt securities. The allegations of misconduct in the sale of auction rate securities (ARS)
illuminated this fact and provided a very concrete example that potential conflicts of
interest in the publication and distribution of debt research can exist just as they do for
equity research.
Currently, FINRA’s research rules apply only to “equity securities,” as that term is defined
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), subject to certain exceptions.
In contrast, SEC Regulation Analyst Certification (Reg AC), the SEC’s primary vehicle to foster
objective and transparent research, applies to both debt and equity research. In addition,
several foreign regulators have enacted research rules that apply to debt research, many
of which are more extensive than Reg AC.
Page 289 of 468

--- PAGE 290 ---
Regulatory Notice
3
March 2011 11-11
In consultation with industry members including buy-side, the staff has reviewed the
appropriateness of applying the provisions of the equity research rules to debt research,
taking into consideration the unique nature of debt trading and its market participants.
Based on this review, the staff has developed a conceptual debt research rule that would
recognize a bifurcated debt research regulatory approach in which retail investors and
institutional investors are treated as customers and counterparties, respectively. Thus, the
envisioned rule extends to debt research distributed to retail investors the vast majority of
the protections currently afforded to equity research, while debt research distributed solely
to institutional investors would require a more general “health warning” in lieu of many of
the structural safeguards and disclosures applicable to retail debt research. Importantly, the
concept would allow for an institutional investor to choose to receive the full protections
accorded retail debt research. The concept further would delineate the permissible
communications between debt research analysts and sales and trading personnel. As
conceived, the rule would contain the following elements:
Definitions
First, a “debt security” would be defined as any “security” other than an “equity security,”
a “treasury security” or a “municipal security” (as those terms are defined in the federal
securities laws). The definition of “debt research report” would closely follow the current
definition of research report in NASD Rule 2711 (i.e., a communication that includes an
analysis of securities and that provides information reasonably sufficient upon which to
base an investment decision). The definition of “debt research report” would be subject to
the same exceptions currently in place for equity in NASD Rule 2711 (e.g., discussions of
broad-based indices, commentaries on economic, political or market conditions, etc. would
be excepted).
The definition of “institutional investor” would be the same as “institutional account” in
FINRA’s suitability rule.6 Thus, the proposed definition generally would cover: (a) a bank,
savings and loan association, insurance company or registered investment company; (b)
an investment adviser registered either with the SEC under Section 203 of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 or with a state securities commission (or any agency or office
performing like functions); or (c) any other entity (whether a natural person, corporation,
partnership, trust or otherwise) with total assets of at least $50 million.
Standards Applicable to Retail Debt Research
The majority of the existing structural safeguards and disclosures in NASD Rule 2711 for
equity research would apply to retail debt research.7 In addition, unlike the equity research
rules, the proposal addresses conflicts between debt research and sales and trading
personnel.8
Page 290 of 468

--- PAGE 291 ---
4
Regulatory Notice
March 2011
11-11
Thus, the staff envisions that the debt research rule would:
0
0
Generally require member firms to establish, maintain and enforce policies and
procedures reasonably designed to identify and effectively manage conflicts of interest
related to:
0
0
the preparation, content and distribution of debt research reports;
0
0
public appearances by debt research analysts; and
0
0
the interaction between debt research analysts and those outside of the research
department, including investment banking department personnel, sales and
trading department personnel, subject companies and customers.
0
0
Prohibit prepublication review, clearance or approval of debt research by investment
banking and sales and trading, as well as restrict (or prohibit) prepublication review,
clearance or approval by a subject company (except for fact checking) or by member
firm personnel who are not directly responsible for the preparation, content and
distribution of debt research.
0
0
Prohibit input by investment banking and sales and trading into the determination of
the research department budget.
0
0
Limit the supervision and compensatory evaluation of debt analysts to persons not
engaged in investment banking services or sales and trading.
0
0
Require the review and approval of debt analyst compensation by the same type of
committee required to review equity analyst compensation, and prohibit compensation
based on specific investment banking or sales and trading transactions or contributions
to the member firm’s investment banking or sales and trading activities.
0
0
Restrict or limit debt analyst account trading in the securities, derivatives and funds
related to the securities covered by the debt analyst, including to:
0
0
ensure that debt analyst accounts, supervisors of such analysts and associated
persons with the ability to influence the content of research reports do not benefit
in their trading from knowledge of the content or timing of a debt research report;
and
0
0
prohibit trading contrary to the analyst’s recommendations (except in cases of
financial hardship). Member firm policies and procedures also would be required.
0
0
Prohibit promises of favorable debt research coverage.
0
0
Prohibit retaliation against debt analysts by investment banking personnel or other
employees as the result of an adverse, negative or otherwise unfavorable research
report or public appearance.
0
0
Restrict or limit activities by debt analysts that can reasonably be expected to
compromise objectivity, including participation in pitches, road shows and certain
three-way meetings involving debt analysts and customers where either investment
banking personnel or issuer management are present.
Page 291 of 468

--- PAGE 292 ---
Regulatory Notice
5
March 2011 11-11
0
0
Prohibit investment banking from directing debt analysts to engage in sales or
marketing efforts or any communication with a customer about an investment
banking services transaction.
Likewise, the staff envisions that the disclosures applicable to equity research largely
should apply to debt. They include disclosure of personal and firm financial interests; the
receipt of investment banking services compensation from the subject company; and
the meaning of each rating employed in any rating system used by the member firm in
the research report.9 The staff also believes that the supervisory review and disclosure
obligations applicable to the distribution of third-party equity research should similarly
apply to third-party retail debt research.
Institutional Investor Exemption
FINRA staff understands that, unlike in the equity market, institutional investors trading in
debt securities tend to interact with broker-dealers in a manner more closely resembling
that of a counterparty than a customer. Based on discussions with industry participants,
the staff further understands that these institutional investors value the timely flow of
analysis and trade ideas related to debt securities, are aware of the types of potential
conflicts that may exist between a member’s recommendations and trading interests, and
are capable of exercising independent judgment in evaluating such recommendations (and
instead incorporate the research as a data point in their own analytics) and reaching pricing
decisions.
Given these unique aspects of the debt market and the needs of its participants, the
concept proposal exempts debt research disseminated solely to institutional investors from
most of the structural safeguards and disclosures described above for retail debt research.
However, firms availing themselves of this institution-only exemption would be required to
provide on the first page of a debt research report a prominent “health warning” disclosure,
including that:
0
0
the research is intended for institutional investors only and is not subject to all of
the independence and disclosure standards applicable to research provided to retail
investors;
0
0
if applicable, that the firm trades the securities covered in the research for its own
account and on behalf of certain clients; such trading interests may be contrary to the
recommendations offered in the research and the research may not be independent of
the firm’s proprietary interests; and
0
0
if applicable, that the research may be inconsistent with recommendations offered in
the firm’s research that is disseminated to retail investors.
Page 292 of 468

--- PAGE 293 ---
6
Regulatory Notice
March 2011
11-11
The staff believes that this approach appropriately acknowledges the arm’s-length nature
of transactions between trading desk personnel and institutional buyers. The staff also
notes that this approach alleviates the need for a firm to determine whether any particular
communication sent only to institutional investors meets the definition of “debt research
report.” Of course, if a communication does not meet the definition of “debt research,”
these contemplated rules would not apply, irrespective of whether disseminated to retail or
institution-only investors. Firms that avail themselves of this institutional carve-out would
be required to clearly distinguish such research from debt research disseminated to retail
investors. However, the staff believes that not all institutional investors are necessarily
alike and therefore an important part of the proposed regulatory scheme is to allow for
such investors to opt out of this exemption.
Notwithstanding the sophistication of institutional debt investors, the staff believes certain
of the basic safeguards applicable to retail research should apply to all debt research;
specifically the prohibitions/restrictions on:
0
0
promises of favorable research;
0
0
debt research analyst involvement in pitches, road shows and other marketing;
0
0
certain three-way meetings about an investment banking services transaction that
involve debt analysts and customers where either investment banking personnel or
issuer management are present;
0
0
input into research coverage by investment banking personnel;
0
0
retaliation against debt research analysts for unfavorable research;
0
0
review of research by the subject company (beyond fact-checking) or investment
banking personnel; and
0
0
investment banking directing debt research analysts to engage in sales or marketing
efforts or any communication with a customer about an investment banking services
transaction.
The staff notes that other FINRA rules would continue to apply to member conduct
in connection with debt research, including research disseminated pursuant to the
institutional investor carve-out (e.g., FINRA Rules 2010 and 2020). In addition, nothing
in this concept proposal obviates a member’s obligation to comply with the antifraud
provisions of the federal securities laws.
Page 293 of 468

--- PAGE 294 ---
Regulatory Notice
7
March 2011 11-11
Communication Firewalls Unique to Debt
The staff’s discussions with industry members illuminated certain necessary
communications between debt analysts and sales and trading personnel to allow each
to perform their primary functions.10 Therefore, the concept proposal delineates the
permissible interactions between debt analysts and sales and trading personnel.
Expressly permitted communications would include the following:11
0
0
Sales and trading personnel seeking information from debt analysts regarding the
creditworthiness of an issuer (and other information regarding a debt issuer that is
reasonably related to the price/performance of the debt security), so long as, with
respect to any covered issuer, such information is consistent with the debt analyst’s
published research. All such communications would have to be consistent with the
types of communications the analyst might have with customers.12
0
0
Debt analysts seeking information from sales and trading personnel regarding a
particular bond instrument, current prices, spreads, liquidity and similar market
information relevant to the debt analyst’s valuation of a particular debt security.
0
0
Sales and trading personnel providing input to Research Management regarding debt
research coverage decisions, provided that final coverage decisions are made
by Research Management.
The following would be expressly prohibited communications:
0
0
Sales and trading personnel attempting to influence a debt analyst’s opinion or views
for the purpose of benefiting the trading position of the firm, a customer or a class of
customers.
0
0
Debt analysts identifying or recommending specific potential trading transactions to
sales and trading personnel that are not contained in such debt analyst’s currently
published reports; disclosing the timing of, or material investment conclusions in, a
pending debt research report; or otherwise having any communication for the purpose
of determining the profile of a customer to whom research should be directed.
Page 294 of 468

--- PAGE 295 ---
8
Regulatory Notice
March 2011
11-11
Request for Comment
FINRA welcomes all comments on the concept proposal, and specifically encourages
buy-side investors to comment on the proposal’s tiered approach. Among other things,
FINRA is interested in comments on the following:
Definitions
0
0
Is the definition of “debt security” overbroad or under-inclusive?
0
0
FINRA recognizes that no “institutional investor” definition is a perfect proxy for
sophistication and has proposed the same definition as found in FINRA’s suitability
rule as a starting point for discussion. Are there other definitions more appropriate
in the context of debt research conflicts of interest that would better identify those
individuals and entities that would benefit from the protections proposed for retail
investors?
Opt-In/Out Provision
0
0
Should this option be structured as an “opt-in” or an “opt-out” provision? Should
fund managers be permitted to opt-in/opt-out on a fund-by-fund basis?
Effect on Availability of Retail Debt Research
0
0
How might the institution-only carve-out impact the availability to retail customers
of certain types of debt research, such as research on foreign sovereign debt? Would
firms with both retail and institutional clients reduce or eliminate debt research
provided to retail investors due to the differing regulatory requirements? Are
there certain categories of debt research that should be exempted from all of the
contemplated rules for both retail and institutional investors?
Disclosures for Institutional Debt Research
0
0
Should there be additional disclosures required for members to avail themselves of the
institution-only carve-out? For example, should members be required to disclose to
institutional investors any substantial proprietary acquisitions or divestments in the
covered debt security immediately prior to the issuance of an institution-only report
on that security?
Comments must be received by April 25, 2011.
Page 295 of 468

--- PAGE 296 ---
Regulatory Notice
9
March 2011 11-11
© 2011 FINRA. All rights reserved. FINRA and other trademarks of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
may not be used without permission. Regulatory Notices attempt to present information to readers in a format
that is easily understandable. However, please be aware that, in case of any misunderstanding, the rule language
prevails.
Endnotes
1
FINRA will not edit personal identifying
information, such as names or email addresses,
from submissions. Persons should submit only
information that they wish to make publicly
available. See NASD Notice to Members 03-73
(November 2003) (NASD Announces Online
Availability of Comments) for more information.
2
Section 19 of the Securities Exchange Act permits
certain limited types of proposed rule changes
to take effect upon filing with the SEC. The SEC
has the authority to summarily temporarily
suspend these types of rule changes within 60
days of filing. If the SEC takes such action, the
SEC shall institute proceedings to determine
whether the proposed rule should be approved
or disapproved. See Exchange Act Section 19 and
rules thereunder.
3
Joint Report by NASD and the NYSE on the
Operation and Effectiveness of the Research
Analyst Conflict of Interest Rules (December
2005).
4
In 2005, the BMA merged with the Securities
Industry Association (SIA) to form the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association
(SIFMA).
5
NTM 06-36 (July 2006).
6
See Securities Exchange Act Release No.
63325 (November 17, 2010), 75 FR 71479
(November 23, 2010) (Order Approving File No.
SR-FINRA-2010-039 to adopt FINRA Rule 2111
(Suitability) in the consolidated FINRA rulebook)
(“Suitability” rule).
7
The staff does not envision proposing with
respect to debt research the ban on research
analysts receiving pre-IPO shares or the
imposition of quiet periods around the issuance
of research reports.
8
The staff notes that Regulatory Notice 08-55
proposed changes to current NASD Rule 2711.
Generally, Regulatory Notice 08-55 sought to
streamline the NASD Rule 2711 provisions
and apply several overarching principles for
the management of conflicts of interest in
connection with member firm research. This
concept proposal builds on that approach,
and further proposes additional safeguards in
connection with debt research not included in
current NASD Rule 2711 or Regulatory Notice
08-55 (e.g., the prohibition on investment
banking and sales and trading input into the
determination of the research department
budget). FINRA will consider whether any of
these additional safeguards are appropriate
for debt.
9
However, the staff believes that certain
disclosures must be modified in light of unique
characteristics of the debt market. Thus, instead
of member firm disclosure if it acts as a market
maker in the subject security, the rule would
require disclosure if the member firm generally
engages in principal trading in the subject
debt security. And while the envisioned rule
provides that the rating distributions and related
disclosures also apply to debt research, the
staff believes that minor modifications would
be appropriate because the lack of daily closing
information may otherwise make a price chart
difficult to create for debt securities.
10
The staff understands that the uniqueness of the
debt market as compared to equities (e.g., limited
last sale transparency information) necessitates
communication between analysts and traders in
certain fundamental regards.
Page 296 of 468

--- PAGE 297 ---
10
Regulatory Notice
March 2011
11-11
11
Communications between debt research analysts
and sales and trading personnel that are not
related to sales and trading or research activities
may take place without restriction.
12
A debt analyst’s communications with sales
and trading personnel would not be deemed
“inconsistent” with the analyst’s published
research where the investment objectives or
time horizons being discussed differ from those
underlying the analyst’s published views.
Endnotes continued
Page 297 of 468

--- PAGE 298 ---

Joint Report by NASD and the NYSE
On the Operation and Effectiveness of the
Research Analyst Conflict of Interest Rules

December 2005

Exhibit 3b
Page 298 of 468

--- PAGE 299 ---

TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................................1

I.
BACKGROUND ..........................................................................................................2

A.
Conflicts that Led to Regulation .......................................................................2
B.
Summary of Rule Filings and Other Regulatory Actions..................................4
1. NASD/NYSE Rule Filings ..........................................................................4
2. Joint Memoranda and Interpretations ..........................................................8
3. Other Regulatory Initiatives.........................................................................8
4. Enforcement Proceedings ............................................................................9

II.
REGISTRATION AND QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.........................10

A.
Series 86/87 Examinations ..............................................................................10
B.
Exemptions .....................................................................................................11
C.
Supervisory Requirements ..............................................................................12
D.
Statistics ..........................................................................................................12

III.
EXAMINATIONS, SWEEPS AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS .....................12

A.
NASD Summary .............................................................................................12
1. Member Regulation ..................................................................................12
2. Enforcement ..............................................................................................13
3. Advertising ................................................................................................14
B.
NYSE Summary ..............................................................................................15
1. Member Firm Regulation ………………………………………………..15
2. Enforcement ……………………………………………………………..15

IV.
IMPACT OF RULES: ACADEMIC STUDIES AND MEDIA REPORTS ……16

V.
REVIEW OF RULE PROVISIONS .......................................................................28

A.
Analytical Framework for Review ..................................................................28
B.
Section-by-Section Review .............................................................................28
1. Definitions .................................................................................................29
2. Restrictions on Investment Banking Department Relationship with
Research Department ................................................................................31
3. Restrictions on Solicitation of Investment Banking Business...................32
4. Restrictions on Sales and Marketing Activities ........................................32
5. Restrictions on Publishing Research Reports and Public Appearances.....33
6. Restrictions on Personal Trading by Research Analysts ...........................37
7. Disclosure Requirements ...........................................................................39
8. Prohibition on Retaliation Against Research Analysts..............................41
9. Prerequisites for the Research Analyst Qualification Examination...........41
Page 299 of 468

--- PAGE 300 ---
ii

C.
Other Issues......................................................................................................42
1 Fixed-Income Research .............................................................................42
2. Issuer Retaliation ......................................................................................42
3. Foreign Regulatory Initiatives ...................................................................43

VI.
CONCLUSION .........................................................................................................44

Page 300 of 468

--- PAGE 301 ---
iii

EXHIBITS

Exhibit A – SRO Rules
NYSE Rules 472 and 472(k) Interpretation, 351, 344 and 344 Interpretation, and
345A

NASD Rules 2711, 1050 and 1120

Exhibit B – July 2002 Joint Memorandum
NYSE Information Memo No. 02-26 (June 26, 2002) and NASD Notice to
Members 02-39 (July 2002)

Exhibit C – March 2004 Joint Memorandum
NYSE Information Memo No. 04-10 (Mar. 9, 2004) and NASD Notice to
Members 04-18 (Mar. 2004)

Exhibit D – Chart Comparing SRO Rules and Global Settlement

Page 301 of 468

--- PAGE 302 ---

INTRODUCTION
Beginning in 2002, the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and NASD (together, “the SROs”)
implemented a series of rule changes (“SRO Rules”) to improve objectivity and transparency in
equity research and provide investors with more reliable and useful information to make
investment decisions. The rules were intended to restore public confidence in the validity of
research and the veracity of research analysts, who are expected to function as unbiased
intermediaries between issuers and the investors who buy and sell their securities. The
trustworthiness of research had eroded due to the pervasive influences of investment banking and
other conflicts that had manifest themselves during the market boom of the late 1990s.
Generally, the SRO Rules require clear, comprehensive and prominent disclosure of conflicts of
interest in research reports and public appearances by research analysts. The rules further
prohibit certain conduct – investment banking personnel involvement in the content of research
and determination of analyst compensation, for example – where the conflicts are considered too
pronounced to be cured by mere disclosure. Together with the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s (“SEC” or the “Commission”) Regulation Analyst Certification and the settlement
terms of certain enforcement proceedings, including the “Global Settlement” among the SROs,
the Commission, the North American Securities Administrators Association (“NASAA”) and
ten1 of the largest investment banks, the SRO Rules have resulted in sweeping changes to the
way firms produce research, utilize and compensate research analysts, and structure the
operations of their research and investment banking departments. Evidence suggests that these
reforms have resulted in more objective, reliable and valuable research for investors. However,
the new rules also have added costs and administrative burdens to firms and contributed to a
reduction in research coverage and analyst compensation.
The SEC has requested that the SROs submit this joint report on the operation and effectiveness
of the SRO Rules, including any staff recommended changes to the current rule provisions.2 The
report contains six sections. Section I provides background on the conflicts that gave rise to the
SRO Rules and sets forth the history of the SRO rulemaking and other regulatory initiatives with
respect to research-related activity. Section II discusses the registration and qualification
requirements for research analysts and their supervisors, including statistics concerning the levels
of registration and qualification. Section III contains a review of SRO examinations, sweeps and
enforcement activity since the SRO Rules became effective. Section IV discusses the impact of
the SRO Rules as reported in academic studies and media reports and commentary. Section V
contains a detailed review of the SRO Rule provisions, including member feedback and
recommended changes. Finally, Section VI is the Conclusion.

1
In August 2004, two additional firms settled with regulators under the same terms as the April 2003 Global
Settlement.
2
The views provided in this report are solely those of the NASD and NYSE staffs and have not been
endorsed by the Board of Governors of NASD or the Board of Directors of the NYSE.
Page 302 of 468

--- PAGE 303 ---
2

I.
BACKGROUND
A.
Conflicts that Led to Regulation
Prior to implementation of the SRO Rules, research analysts were subject to a host of pressures
and influences that could – and in many instances, did – compromise the objectivity of their
research. The primary biasing forces came from investment bankers who pressured research
analysts to speak favorably of current and prospective clients and, with management
acquiescence, linked analysts’ compensation directly to their role in landing lucrative investment
banking deals. In the succinct words of a retired Wall Street research analyst who testified
before Congress in the summer of 2001: “Investment banking now dominates equity research.”3
Other conflicts also existed, most notably analysts’ personal financial interest in the securities
they covered and their firms’ ownership positions in covered securities. In addition, research
analysts were subject to pressure from subject companies and their major shareholders to
maintain favorable ratings.4
In testimony before the House Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government
Sponsored Enterprises (the “Subcommittee”), SEC Acting Chair Laura Unger identified a
number of then commonplace practices that illustrated the conflicts of interest faced by research
analysts.5 First, research analysts were compensated based on their contributions in support of
investment banking transactions and the profitability of that unit. To that end, research analysts
typically consulted on possible transactions, participated in road shows and initiated favorable
coverage on current and prospective investment banking clients. Moreover, investment bankers
at some firms evaluated research analysts for compensation purposes, particularly bonuses.
Second, research analysts provided research reports on companies underwritten by the analysts’
firms. Third, research analysts invested in pre-initial public offering (“IPO”) private placements
of companies they subsequently covered and for which their firms had acted as underwriters.
Fourth, research analysts provided investment bankers with prior notice of changes in
recommendations. Fifth, research analysts issued “booster-shot” research reports or “buy”
recommendations close to expiration of the lock-up period. Such reports served to generate
buying interest in the stock and help increase the price while the firm, its clients, or the analysts
sold their shares. Sixth, research analysts owned securities in the companies they covered and
either failed to disclose those interests or did so in an opaque manner. In some cases, analysts
executed trades for their personal accounts that were contrary to the recommendations in their
research reports.6 Finally, analysts rarely revealed any conflicts of interest to investors during

3
Analyzing the Analysts: Hearings Before the H. Comm. On Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government
Sponsored Enterprises of the Comm. On Financial Services, 107th Cong., at 243 (2001) (prepared
testimony of Ronald Glantz, retired) (“Glantz Testimony”).
4
See, e.g., Analyzing the Analysts at 251 (prepared testimony of Charles L. Hill, Director of Financial
Research, Thomson Financial/First Call) (“analyst objectivity is subject to pressure from four different
places”: (1) analysts themselves; (2) investment banking; (3) public companies; and (4) institutional
shareholders).
5
Analyzing the Analysts at 227-240 (written testimony of Laura S. Unger, Acting Chair of the Securities and
Exchange Commission) (“Unger Testimony”).
6
Id. at 233. See also, e.g., Analyzing the Analysts at 160 (prepared testimony of Gregg Hymowitz, Founder
and Principal of EnTrust Capital Inc.); Glantz Testimony, supra note 3; Analyzing the Analysts at 266
Page 303 of 468

--- PAGE 304 ---
3

media appearances in which they routinely recommended securities, and while most firms
affirmatively stated that they acted as an underwriter or market maker, others merely stated that
they “may” have acted in that capacity.7
While these conflicts were not new, they had deepened in the existing market environment. As
another witness who testified before the Subcommittee observed:
[T]he pressures on the analyst have escalated in an environment
where penny changes in earnings-per-share forecasts make
dramatic differences in share price, where profits from investment-
banking activities outpace profits from brokerage and research,
where the demographics of the investors who use and rely on sell-
side research have shifted, and where investment research and
recommendations are now prime-time news.8
The industry itself seemed to recognize that the conflicts in research had intensified. As the
SROs began rulemaking, discussed in Section I.B below, the industry took steps on its own to
address these conflicts. Several firms amended or adopted policies regarding research analysts’
ownership of securities of covered companies.9
In addition, in June 2001, the Securities Industry Association (“SIA”) endorsed a compilation of
“best practices”10 designed to restore the integrity of research and “reaffirm that the securities
analyst serves only one master: The investor.”11 The practices were compiled by an ad hoc
committee of senior research professionals from the SIA’s largest member firms, and included
several key recommendations focused on analyst compensation and stock ownership, relations

(prepared testimony of Adam Lashinsky, Silicon Valley Columnist, The Street.com); Id. at 253 (prepared
testimony of Matt Winkler, Editor-in-Chief, Bloomberg News).
7
Unger Testimony, supra note 5, at 234.
8
Analyzing the Analysts at 196 (statement of Thomas A. Bowman, CFA, President and Chief Executive
Officer, The Association for Investment Management and Research).
9
For example, Merrill Lynch, Edward Jones and Credit Suisse First Boston announced new policies
prohibiting analysts from owning shares in companies they follow. See id. at 120 (opening statement of
Honorable Paul Kanjorski). Goldman Sachs initiated a policy that would permit analysts to own shares in
companies they cover under the following conditions: (1) approval of management and the firm’s
compliance committee would be required for purchases; (2) purchases would be subject to a minimum 30-
day holding period; (3) analysts would be permitted to purchase only stocks that were rated a “trading buy”
or already on the firm’s recommended list; (4) analysts would be prohibited from selling securities unless
they were rated below a “trading buy”; and (5) there would be a twenty-four hour restriction imposed after
a change in the rating of a company. See Adam Lashinsky, Wall Street’s Discovery of Ethics Is Too Little,
Too Late, TheStreet.com, July 10, 2001, http://www.thestreet.com/markets/adamlashinsky/1486552.html.
Prior to this time, Robertson Stephens had implemented a policy in September 2000 pursuant to which: (1)
analysts cannot own stock in companies they cover, and (2) if they already own shares in a company they
want to cover, they are required to sell their shares or place them in a blind trust. Id.
10
See Best Practices for Research, June 2001, and Press Release, SIA Endorses “Best Practices” To Ensure
Ongoing Integrity of Research (June 21, 2001); Analyzing the Analysts at 172 (statement of Marc E.
Lackritz, President, SIA).
11
See Best Practices for Research, June 2001, and Press Release, supra note 10.
Page 304 of 468

--- PAGE 305 ---
4

with investment banking units and disclosures: (1) research departments should not report to
investment banking or any other business units that might compromise their independence, and
there should be no outside or investment banking approval of the analyst’s opinions or
recommendations; (2) analysts’ compensation should not be directly linked to specific
investment banking transactions, sales and trading revenues or asset management fees; (3)
personal financial interests in covered securities should be disclosed; and (4) analysts should not
trade contrary to their recommendations, except after consultation with research department,
legal and/or compliance personnel.12
Similarly, in July 2001, the Association for Investment Management and Research (“AIMR”),
which is now named the CFA Institute, released a white paper discussing a wide range of
potential influences on the objectivity of brokerage-firm research.13 The white paper also set
forth recommendations for a more objective research environment, including: (1) brokerage firm
management must foster a corporate culture that fully supports independence and objectivity; (2)
firms must establish or reinforce separate reporting structures so that investment banking can
never influence a research report or investment recommendation; (3) firms should implement
compensation arrangements that do not link analysts’ compensation to investment banking work;
and (4) firms should require public disclosure of actual conflicts of interest to investors.14
However, the guidelines set forth by the industry associations lacked the force and effect of law.
Moreover, some lawmakers felt the voluntary industry efforts were inadequate in scope. As
Congressman Richard Baker remarked on the second day of hearings before the Subcommittee,
“[T]he existing industry association best-practices proposal doesn’t go far enough to address the
problems, nor, I might add, do subsequent actions taken by individual firms . . . .”15
Congressman John LaFalce expressed that “more disclosure of these conflicts, in itself will not
suffice to protect the individual investor.”16
B.
Summary of Rule Filings and Other Regulatory Actions

1.
NASD/NYSE Rule Filings
The SROs enacted the research analyst conflict rules in two primary tranches and, more recently,
adopted additional amendments prohibiting analysts from participating in road shows. See
Exhibit A for the complete text of the SRO Rules. In addition, the SROs supplemented their
rulemaking with two joint memoranda that provided interpretive guidance to their members on a
number of issues. See Exhibits B and C for the joint interpretive memoranda. The NASD and
NYSE rules and interpretations are virtually identical and are intended to operate uniformly.

12
Id.
13
See Preserving The Integrity of Research, Association for Investment Management and Research (July
2001), and CFA Institute Press Release, Global Investment Association AIMR Issues Report On Analyst
Objectivity (July 11, 2001).
14
Id.
15
Analyzing the Analysts at 210 (opening statement of Honorable Richard H. Baker, Chairman).
16
Id. at 219 (statement of Honorable John J. LaFalce, Ranking Committee Member).
Page 305 of 468

--- PAGE 306 ---
5

Round 1 Amendments
In February 2002, the SROs filed the first round of proposed SRO Rules (“Round 1
Amendments”) – amendments to NYSE Rules 351 (“Reporting Requirements”) and 472
(“Communications with the Public”) and new NASD Rule 2711(“Research Analysts and
Research Reports”)17 – which implemented basic reforms to separate research from investment
banking and to provide more extensive disclosure of conflicts of interest in research reports and
public appearances.
Generally, the Round 1 Amendments, approved by the SEC on May 10, 2002,18 achieved the
following:
• imposed structural reforms to increase analyst independence, including prohibiting
investment banking personnel from supervising analysts or approving research reports;
• prohibited offering favorable research to induce investment banking business;
• prohibited research analysts from receiving compensation based on a specific investment
banking transaction;
• required disclosure of financial interests in covered companies by the analyst and the
firm;
• required disclosure of existing and potential investment banking relationships with
subject companies;
• imposed quiet periods for the issuance of research reports after securities offerings
managed or co-managed by a member;
• restricted personal trading by analysts;
• required disclosure in research reports of data and price charts that help investors track
the correlation between an analyst’s rating and the stock’s price movements; and
• required disclosure in research reports of the distribution of buy/hold/sell ratings and the
percentage of investment banking clients in each category.
The Round 1 Amendments were phased-in incrementally to provide members time to implement
necessary policies, procedures, systems and other measures to comply with the new

17
On February 8, 2002, NASD filed SR-NASD-2002-021. The NYSE filed SR-NYSE-2002-09 on February
27, 2002. On March 7, 2002, NASD filed Amendment No. 1 to SR-NASD-2002-021. The proposals were
published for comment in the Federal Register on March 14, 2002. See Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 45526 (Mar. 8, 2002), 67 FR 11526 (Mar. 14, 2002). On May 1, 2002, NASD filed Amendment No. 2
to SR-NASD-2002-021, and the NYSE filed Amendment No. 1 to SR-NYSE-2002-09.
18
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 45908 (May 10, 2002), 67 FR 34968 (May 16, 2002) (order
approving SR-NYSE-2002-09 and SR-NASD-2002-021).
Page 306 of 468

--- PAGE 307 ---
6

requirements. Most provisions of the SRO Rules went into effect on July 9, 2002; others became
effective on September 9, 2002 or November 6, 2002.19
Round 2 Amendments and Sarbanes-Oxley
On July 29, 2003, the SEC approved a second set of amendments to the SRO Rules (“Round 2
Amendments”)20 that achieved two purposes. First, the Round 2 Amendments implemented
SRO initiatives to further promote analyst objectivity and transparency of conflicts in research
reports. The need for some of these additional measures had come to light in the course of joint
sweeps undertaken by the SROs and SEC to examine members’ research practices for
compliance with industry regulations.21 Among the most significant SRO initiatives included in
the Round 2 Amendments were provisions that:
• further insulated analyst compensation from investment banking influence by requiring
that a compensation committee, without investment banking representation, review and
approve compensation of research analysts and that such compensation be based on the
quality of research produced;
• prohibited analysts from participating in the solicitation of investment banking business;
• prohibited analysts from issuing a research report or making a public appearance
concerning a subject company around the time of a lock-up expiration, termination or
waiver;
• required members to publish a final research report when they terminate coverage of a
subject company and provide notice of such termination;
• imposed registration, qualification and continuing education requirements on research
analysts (detailed in Section II below); and
• created an exemption from certain rule provisions for firms that engage in limited
underwriting activity.
Second, the Round 2 Amendments implemented changes mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”).22 Sarbanes-Oxley required adoption by July 30, 2003 of rules
“reasonably designed to address conflicts of interest that can arise when securities analysts
recommend equity securities in research reports and public appearances,” and set forth certain
specific rules to be promulgated. Many of those rules had already been adopted in the first round

19
Certain small firms with limited underwriting activity were granted delayed effectiveness from certain
provisions of the SRO Rules until July 2003, at which time a limited exemption was adopted and codified.
20
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 48252 (July 29, 2003), 68 FR 45875 (Aug. 4, 2003) (order approving
SR-NYSE-2002-49 and SR-NASD-2002-154).
21
In April 2002, the SROs and the SEC established a Joint Task Force to review practices of designated firms
with regard to research reports and recommendations on issuers for which firms had provided or sought
investment banking services from January 1999 through April 2002.
22
See Section 15D(a) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78o-6.
Page 307 of 468

--- PAGE 308 ---
7

of SRO rulemaking. The Round 2 Amendments therefore implemented those specific Sarbanes-
Oxley rules that did not already exist and conformed the language of the SRO Rules as
necessary. Most notably, the Round 2 Amendments satisfied the following Sarbanes-Oxley
requirements:
• modified the definition of “research report” to delete the requirement that the
communication contain a recommendation;
• extended quiet periods after securities offerings to all firms that participated in the
offering as an underwriter or dealer;
• required disclosure of a client relationship and non-investment banking compensation
received by a firm from a covered company; and
• prohibited retaliation against research analysts for publishing unfavorable research on an
investment banking client.
As with the Round 1 Amendments, the Round 2 Amendments were phased-in incrementally.
Most provisions went into effect on September 29, 2003, while certain other provisions did not
become effective until October 27, 2003 or January 26, 2004.23
Recent Amendment Prohibiting Analyst Participation in Road Shows
On April 21, 2005, the Commission approved an amendment to the SRO Rules that prohibits
research analysts from participating in a road show related to an investment banking services
transaction and from communicating with current or prospective customers in the presence of
investment banking department personnel or company management about such an investment
banking services transaction.24 Additionally, the amendment prohibits investment banking
personnel from directing a research analyst to engage in sales and marketing efforts and other
communications with a current or prospective customer about an investment banking services
transaction.
By prohibiting research analysts from participating in road shows and communicating with
customers in the presence of investment bankers or company management, the amendment
further reduces pressure on research analysts to give an overly optimistic assessment of a
particular transaction. It also removes any suggestion to investors in attendance at a road show
that the analyst will give positive coverage to the issuer or that the analyst endorses all of the
views expressed by the company or investment banking department personnel.

23
In 2004, the SROs delayed the effectiveness of certain disclosure provisions in the rules until April 26,
2004. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 49119 (Jan. 23, 2004), 69 FR 4337 (Jan. 29, 2004) (notice
of immediate effectiveness of SR-NASD-2004-003 and SR-NYSE-2004-01).
24
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 51593 (Apr. 21, 2005), 70 FR 22168 (Apr. 28, 2005) (order
approving SR-NASD-2004-141 and SR-NYSE-2005-24). As defined under NASD Rule 2711(a)(2) and
NYSE Rule 472.20, “investment banking services” includes, without limitation, acting as an underwriter in
an offering for the issuer; acting as a financial adviser in a merger or acquisition; providing venture capital,
equity lines of credit, PIPEs (private investment, public equity transaction), or similar investments; or
serving as placement agent for the issuer.
Page 308 of 468

--- PAGE 309 ---
8

The amendment expressly permits research analysts to educate investors and member personnel
about a particular offering or other transaction, provided the communication occurs outside the
presence of company management and investment banking department personnel. Such
permissible communications to investors and internal personnel must be fair, balanced and not
misleading, taking into account the overall context in which such communications are made.25
The amendment became effective on June 6, 2005.
2.
Joint Memoranda and Interpretations
The Commission noted in its approval order of May 10, 2002 that the SROs would provide
interpretive guidance on certain provisions of the SRO Rules. Accordingly, contemporaneous
with the first effective date of the new rules, the SROs issued a joint memorandum (“July 2002
Joint Memorandum”) providing interpretive guidance on a number of topics, including: the
definitions of “investment banking services” and “research report”; public appearances; quiet
periods; the applicability of the SRO Rules to third-party research; the prohibition on certain
forms of research analyst compensation; restrictions on personal trading by analysts; and
requisite disclosures, including the distribution of ratings and price charts (see Exhibit B).26
In March 2004, the SROs issued a second joint memorandum (“March 2004 Joint
Memorandum”) to provide further interpretive guidance on the amended SRO Rules (see Exhibit
C).27 That memorandum generally addressed issues related to the definition of “research report”;
the applicability of the “gatekeeper,” blackout and quiet periods provisions; and the scope and
prominence of certain disclosure requirements.
The SROs continue to work together on interpretive issues.
3.
Other Regulatory Initiatives
Regulation AC
On February 6, 2003, the SEC adopted Regulation Analyst Certification (“Regulation AC”),
which took effect on April 14, 2003.28 Regulation AC generally requires broker-dealers to
include in a research report certifications by the analysts who are principally responsible for

25
The prohibition on research analysts’ participation in road shows does not prohibit certain analysts’
communications that are permitted under the federal securities laws. See 17 CFR 230.137, 230.138 and
230.139 (research reports issued in accordance with Rules 137, 138 and 139 under the Securities Act of
1933).
26
See NYSE Information Memo No. 02-26 (June 26, 2002), and NASD Notice to Members 02-39 (July
2002).
27
See NYSE Information Memo No. 04-10 (Mar. 9, 2004), and NASD Notice to Members 04-18 (Mar.
2004).
28
See Regulation Analyst Certification, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 47384 (Feb. 20, 2003), 68 FR
9482 (Feb. 27, 2003). In August 2003 and April 2005, the SEC staff issued additional guidance regarding
Regulation AC in a series of questions and answers on the SEC Web site. See SEC Responses to
Frequently Asked Questions Concerning Regulation Analyst Certification,
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/marketreg/mregacfaq0803.htm.
Page 309 of 468

--- PAGE 310 ---
9

preparing the report (1) that the recommendations or views expressed in the research report
accurately reflect the analysts’ personal views about the subject securities and issuers, and (2)
whether any part of the analysts’ compensation was, is, or will be directly or indirectly related to
any specific recommendations or views expressed in the research report. In addition, research
analysts must certify to the accuracy of statements made in public appearances and that no part
of the research analysts’ compensation is tied to statements made during the public appearance.
If the broker-dealer does not obtain such certification by the analysts, it must disclose this fact
and promptly notify its designated examining authority. The SROs continue to examine for
compliance with Regulation AC.
Unlike the SRO Rules, Regulation AC applies to both fixed-income and equity research reports
and the analysts who are primarily responsible for preparing those reports. Similar to the SRO
Rules, Regulation AC broadly defines a “research report” as “a written communication
(including an electronic communication) that includes an analysis of a security or an issuer and
provides information reasonably sufficient upon which to base an investment decision.”
4.
Enforcement Proceedings
As the SROs engaged in rulemaking to manage and eradicate existing research conflicts,
regulators brought enforcement proceedings to redress past misconduct in the area.
Merrill Lynch Settlement
In May 2002, as part of a settlement with the New York Attorney General, Merrill Lynch agreed
to adopt certain changes to its equity research and investment banking activities. Among other
things, Merrill Lynch agreed to completely separate analyst compensation from investment
banking, prohibit investment banking input into analysts’ compensation and disclose in all
research reports whether it has received or is entitled to receive any compensation from a
covered company over the past 12 months.
The Global Settlement
On April 28, 2003, the SEC, NYSE, NASD, NASAA and the New York Attorney General’s
Office announced that they had reached an agreement (the “Global Settlement”) with ten
investment banking firms settling actions alleging fraudulent or misleading research. The United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York approved the Global Settlement on
October 31, 200329 and an amendment to the agreement was approved in September 2004.30
The Global Settlement differs in structure from the SRO Rules. The former generally prohibits
all communications between research and investment banking personnel, with certain express
exceptions. In contrast, the SRO Rules permit all communications that are not expressly
prohibited. But the key provisions of the Global Settlement and the SRO Rules are essentially

29
See SEC Litigation Release No. 18438, 2003 SEC LEXIS 2601 (Oct. 31, 2003).
30
See 03 Civ. 2941 (WHP), 2004 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 19149 (S.D.N.Y. Sept. 24, 2004) (amendments to
Addendum A).
Page 310 of 468

--- PAGE 311 ---
10

the same; the few differences are noted below. A chart comparing the provisions is included as
Exhibit D.
The common provisions include prohibitions on review and approval of research by investment
banking; prohibitions on research analysts from soliciting investment banking business and
participating in sales and marketing activities; requirements for the termination of coverage;
general requirements that the compensation of a research analyst primarily responsible for the
preparation of the substance of a research report be reviewed and approved by a member firm
committee without investment banking representation that reports to the Board of Directors or
the senior chief executive officer; and increased disclosure and transparency of potential and
actual conflicts of interests and of issues related to the performance of research analysts, such as
ratings, price targets and an explanation of the firm’s rating system.
Some Global Settlement terms have not been explicitly or implicitly incorporated into the SRO
Rules. For example, the Global Settlement requires that the work of the compensation
committee be reviewed by an oversight committee of research management. Other Global
Settlement requirements not incorporated by the SROs are physical separation between research
analysts and investment banking; the requirement that research have its own dedicated legal and
compliance staff; and requirements for firms to procure and make available for their clients
independent research on listed companies that they cover.
Additionally, comparable SRO Rules and Global Settlement definitions differ in degree and
scope. The definitions of “research reports” and “research analysts” are illustrative. The SRO
Rules, for example, apply to all research reports produced by the SROs’ members, irrespective of
where or to whom they are distributed; however, the Global Settlement limits its definition of
“research report” to communications furnished to investors in the United States. Also, the SRO
Rules’ definition of “research analyst” – the same as mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act – is
broader than the Global Settlement’s definition of “Research Personnel,” which is limited to
those individuals whose primary job is the preparation of research reports.
The SRO staffs address in Section V whether they recommend incorporating additional Global
Settlement terms into the SRO Rules or making any other conforming changes.
II.
REGISTRATION AND QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
A.
Series 86/87 Examinations
As part of the Round 2 Amendments, the SEC approved rules requiring registration and
qualification requirements for research analysts. The SRO Rules require an associated person31
who functions as a research analyst on behalf of a member to register as such and pass a
qualification examination. Those rules are intended to ensure that research analysts possess a
certain competency level to perform their jobs effectively and in accordance with applicable
rules and regulations. In the context of this requirement, the SRO Rules define “research
analyst” as “an associated person who is primarily responsible for the preparation of the

31
See SR-NYSE-2005-24 amending the definition of “research analyst” in NYSE Rules 344.10 and 472.40 to
include “associated persons.” NASD rules already separately defined “associated person.”
Page 311 of 468

--- PAGE 312 ---
11

substance of a research report or whose name appears on a ‘research report,’” as that term is
defined in the SRO Rules.
The SROs jointly developed and implemented the Research Analyst Qualification Examination
(Series 86/87). The examination consists of an analysis part (Series 86) and a regulatory part
(Series 87). Prior to taking either the Series 86 or 87, a candidate also must have passed the
General Securities Registered Representative Examination (Series 7), the Limited Registered
Representative Examination (Series 17), or the Canada Module of Series 7 (Series 37 or 38).
Persons who were functioning as research analysts on the effective date of March 30, 2004 and
submitted a registration application to NASD by June 1, 2004, had until April 4, 2005 to meet
the registration requirements. There was no grandfather provision. The one-year grace period
was intended to provide these analysts sufficient time to study and pass the examination without
causing undue disruption in carrying out their responsibilities to their member firm and its
customers.
B.
Exemptions
The SRO Rules provide three exemptions from the Series 86 examination. First, there is an
exemption for research analysts who have passed Levels I and II of the Chartered Financial
Analyst (“CFA”) examination and have either (1) completed the CFA Level II within 2 years of
application or registration, or (2) functioned as a research analyst continuously since having
passed the CFA Level II.32 A second exemption is available to research analysts who have
passed Levels I and II of the Chartered Market Technician Examination and produce only
“technical research reports” as that term is defined under the SRO Rules.33
A third exemption – from both the Series 86 and Series 87 – is available to “associated persons”
of a member who are employed by that member’s foreign affiliate but who produce research on
behalf of the U.S. member. The SROs created this third exemption in response to requests from
some members with global research operations that had difficulty ascertaining whether certain
foreign research analysts whose work contributed to the member’s research report were
“associated persons” who must meet the registration and qualification requirements under the
SRO Rules.
To be eligible for the exemption, three primary conditions must be met: (1) a foreign analyst
must comply with the registration and qualification requirements or other standards in an SRO-
approved foreign jurisdiction whose regulatory scheme reflects a recognition of principles that
are consonant with the SRO Rules and qualification standards; (2) the U.S. member must apply
all of the other SROs rules and other member firm standards to the research produced by the
foreign affiliate and foreign research analysts that qualify for, and rely upon, the exemption; and
(3) the U.S. member must include a specific disclosure that the research report has been prepared
in whole or part by foreign research analysts who may be associated persons of the member who
are not registered/qualified as a research analyst with the NYSE or NASD, but instead have

32
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 49464 (Mar. 24, 2004), 69 FR 16628 (Mar. 30, 2004) (order
approving SR-NYSE-2004-03 and SR-NASD-2004-020).
33
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 51240 (Feb. 23, 2005), 70 FR 10451 (Mar. 3, 2005) (notice of
immediate effectiveness of SR-NYSE-2005-12 and SR-NASD-2005-022).
Page 312 of 468

--- PAGE 313 ---
12

satisfied the registration/qualification requirements or other research-related standards of a
foreign jurisdiction that have been recognized for these purposes by the NYSE and NASD.
Eligibility for the exemption in no way bears upon whether the foreign research analyst is an
associated person of the member. And to the extent that a member can determine that a foreign
research analyst is not an “associated person,” there is no requirement to satisfy any of the SRO
Rules, including the registration and qualification requirements.
Currently, the following jurisdictions satisfy the applicable SRO standards noted above: China,
Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and the United Kingdom. The SROs only
considered those jurisdictions submitted by the members that requested the exemption but agreed
to consider additional jurisdictions on a case-by-case basis, as requested.34
C.
Supervisory Requirements
NASD has an additional rule that requires supervisors of research analysts to pass the Series 87
examination or the NYSE Series 16 Supervisory Analyst Examination. Those who oversee the
content of research reports must have passed either the Series 87 or the Series 16 examination. A
registered principal (Series 24) who has also passed either the Series 87 or the Series 16
examination must supervise the conduct of both the Series 16 Supervisory Analyst and the
research analyst. The rule became effective on August 2, 2005.35 NYSE Rule 472(a)(2) requires
that a supervisory analyst acceptable under NYSE Rule 344 approve research reports.
D.
Statistics
Between April 1, 2004 and November 30, 2005, 5,599 research analysts and 418 research
principals had satisfied the applicable registration and qualification requirements. The Series 86
exam was attempted 6,158 times, with an overall pass rate of 74.9%, and the Series 87 exam was
attempted 8,259 times, with an overall pass rate of 89.6%. During the same period, 2,375 CFA
exemptions and 34 technical analyst exemptions were granted.
III.
EXAMINATIONS, SWEEPS AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS
The SROs continue to closely examine for compliance with the SRO Rules and rigorously
pursue enforcement actions for violations of these rules. The area of research analyst conflicts
remains a high priority component of the SROs’ examination and enforcement programs.
A.
NASD Summary
1.
Member Regulation
As the SRO Rules became effective, NASD’s Member Regulation Department incorporated into
its routine examination program an inspection for compliance with NASD Rule 2711 and SEC
Regulation AC.

34
The SROs will notify their membership in the event additional jurisdictions are approved.
35
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 50162 (Aug. 6, 2004), 69 FR 50406 (Aug. 16, 2004) (order approving
SR-NASD-2004-078).
Page 313 of 468

--- PAGE 314 ---
13

Between July 2002 and November 30, 2005, NASD initiated 467 examinations reviewing firms
for compliance with Rule 2711 and Regulation AC. In the course of these examinations, NASD
found 110 violations of Rule 2711 and 25 violations of Regulation AC. Specifically, the Rule
2711 violations have involved: (1) failure to have adequate procedures in place to supervise the
activities of research analysts with respect to conflicts of interest, in violation of Rule 2711(i) (47
of 467 examinations); (2) failure to adequately comply with the disclosure requirements
regarding research reports and public appearances, in violation of Rule 2711(h) (24 of 467
examinations); (3) failure to file the Annual Attestation, in violation of Rule 2711(i) (20 of 467
examinations); (4) personal trading of the subject companies’ securities in the analyst’s account
within the restricted time period, in violation of Rule 2711(g) (10 of 467 examinations); and (5)
failure to comply with restrictions on communications with the subject company, in violation of
Rule 2711(c) (9 of 467 examinations).
Of the 135 violations of Rule 2711 and Regulation AC found to date, 27 have resulted or are
expected to result in an Acceptance, Waiver and Consent, seven have resulted in a formal
complaint, 18 have resulted in a compliance conference, 81 have resulted in a Letter of Caution,
and two remain under investigation.
2.
Enforcement
As of November 30, 2005, NASD Enforcement has settled 29 cases involving Rule 2711
violations and two cases involving violations of Rule 1050, the analyst registration rule. By far,
the vast majority of settled Enforcement actions have involved violations of the disclosure
requirements of Rule 2711(h), encompassing over 265 research reports. Specific violations of
this provision include: (1) failure to disclose ownership of shares of subject companies; (2)
failure to disclose compensation for investment banking services from the subject company; (3)
failure to disclose market making activity; (4) use of conditional language in making the
requisite disclosures; (5) failure to provide sufficient price charts; (6) failure to disclose the
distribution of buy, hold and sell recommendations; (7) failure to provide information about the
valuation methods used; (8) failure to define recommendations; and (9) failure to provide
disclosures required by Rule 2210.
Other settled Enforcement cases have involved such violations of Rule 2711 as (1) failure to
maintain supervisory procedures pursuant to Rule 2711(i) (113 research reports); (2)
communications with subject companies in violation of Rule 2711(c) (17 research reports); and
(3) failure to abide by the personal trading restrictions under Rule 2711(g) (21 research reports).
In addition, two cases involved analysts offering favorable research reports in exchange for
compensation in violation of Rule 2711(e), and one case involved a firm’s failure to provide
notice of termination of coverage and issue final research reports with respect to seven subject
companies, in violation of Rule 2711(f).
Sanctions in the settled Enforcement cases have included fines ranging from $10,000 to $50,000,
disgorgement, suspensions and bars in all capacities. In addition, NASD Enforcement has settled
with two firms for failure to timely apply for research analyst designation in violation of Rule
1050. These two cases involved 56 analysts and 325 research reports, and each firm was
censured and fined (one in the amount of $100,000; the other, $150,000).
Page 314 of 468

--- PAGE 315 ---
14

There are currently two pending complaints against firms and a number of open investigations
involving suspected violations of Rule 2711. These matters involve many of the same
compliance issues discussed above, including allegations of failure to meet disclosure obligations
and of transgressing the personal trading restrictions. In addition, in summer 2005, the SROs
launched a joint sweep of 30 firms to review their compliance with NASD Rules 2711 and 1050
and NYSE Rule 344 in the context of research prepared on behalf of the members by foreign
analysts. That review is ongoing.
3.
Advertising
Although members need not file research reports with NASD’s Advertising Regulation
Department, they do constitute “communications with the public” under NASD’s advertising
rules. As such, NASD’s Advertising Regulation Department has conducted two sweeps since
NASD Rule 2711 was implemented. In 2002, a sweep of 28 firms was conducted to determine
whether firms had made a good faith effort to comply with Rule 2711 and identify any new
interpretive issues that might arise. Firms were notified of any compliance shortcomings, with
the expectation that those deficiencies promptly would be remedied.
In 2004, NASD’s Advertising Regulation Department conducted a second sweep of the ten
Global Settlement firms and specifically requested information about their equity research
reports (including access to their Web sites), samples of each type of report they used and
explanatory material about their ratings. As part of this second sweep, examiners revisited the
spot check conducted in 2002 to determine whether firms had made revisions as indicated.
This subsequent review revealed continued deficiencies in several areas. First, some firms were
unclear in describing their ratings methodology. For example, some firms failed to explain a
two-pronged approach they employed to assess a sector and an individual issuer within that
sector. Examiners flagged such reports for failure to comply with the clarity requirement of Rule
2711(h)(10) because the absence of clear ratings descriptions could lead to misconceptions by
investors about the firm’s actual view of the issuer. Second, some members failed to provide
clear disclosure presentations; for example, they used complex systems of footnotes
inconsistently and indefinite disclosures (e.g., “may conduct investment banking”). Examiners
also identified such practices as violations of Rule 2711’s clarity standard. Third, some members
failed to use the terms “buy,” “hold,” and “sell” in the ratings distribution chart, as required by
Rule 2711(h)(5). Finally, some members used language that seemed to disclaim responsibility
for information in the report about the member firm, including required disclosures of certain
conflicts.
NASD’s Advertising Regulation Department does not have authority to bring formal actions
against members and thus referred to NASD Enforcement those cases where it recommended
that further action be considered.
Page 315 of 468

--- PAGE 316 ---
15

B.
NYSE Summary
1.
Member Firm Regulation
The NYSE currently has 348 members and member organizations of which 217 are conducting a
public business and/or issuing research. The NYSE incorporated the SRO Rule requirements
into its exam scope for routine examinations of members and member organizations by Member
Firm Regulation (“MFR”), following the effective dates of the SRO Rules in 2002 and 2003.36
MFR examiners conducted a series of reviews investigating member and member organization
compliance with the SRO Rules and SEC Regulation AC. Between August 2002 and October
2005, MFR conducted a total of 296 examinations.37 NYSE examiners cited a total of 75 firms
with a total of 271 findings for non and/or partial compliance with the SRO Rules and
Regulation AC.38 The findings were distributed as follows: 26 in 2002; 62 in 2003; 152 in
2004; and 31 in 2005.
Specifically, the NYSE examination findings included: (1) failure to clearly and prominently
state in research reports in the proper format the disclosures required by the SRO Rules; (2)
failure to adhere to the disclosure and record maintenance requirements for associated persons
making public appearances; (3) failure to comply with record maintenance requirements
evidencing the disclosures in connection with recommendations of securities in print media,
interviews, newspaper articles or broadcasts; (4) failure to comply with restrictions on trading
activities for associated persons; (5) failure to have legal or compliance personnel intermediate
written communications between non-research personnel and research personnel concerning the
content of research reports; (6) inclusion of price targets, rating summaries or research ratings
information in a draft of a research report sent to a subject company; (7) executing changes to
research reports after sending the report to a subject company without proper approval by legal
and compliance; (8) allowing research analysts to work under the supervision or control of
investment banking department personnel; (9) offering favorable research for business; (10)
failure to maintain written procedures for compliance with the SRO Rules; and (11) failure to
have a committee in place to review and approve analyst compensation.

2.
Enforcement
Between August 2002 and November 2005, 13 examination findings were referred to
Enforcement from MFR for SRO Rule violations.39 As discussed in more detail below, many of

36
Only members and member organizations that conducted a public business and/or issued research were
examined for compliance with the SRO Rules.
37
The breakdown of examinations was as follows: 21 firms in 2002, 85 firms in 2003, 140 firms in 2004 and
50 firms in 2005. In many instances the same firm was examined in successive years.
38
Of the 271 findings, 22 involved Regulation AC. The 22 Regulation AC findings involved: failures by
member organizations to maintain clear and prominent disclosures of research analyst certifications;
failures to maintain records regarding public appearances of research analysts; failures to specify on the
front page of reports the pages on which analyst certifications can be found; failures to have written
policies and procedures to prevent inappropriate influences over research analysts; expired or missing
certifications; failures with respect to terminated coverage; and missing attestations.
39
There were also referrals based on findings for Rule 472 prior to its amendment.
Page 316 of 468

--- PAGE 317 ---
16

these findings are currently the subject of NYSE Enforcement investigation/action, and many
have been completed. Recently, a Hearing Panel Decision (“HPD”)40 announced a disciplinary
action involving violations of the SRO Rules gatekeeper provisions.41 This case resulted in
consent to censure and a $150,000 fine. Additionally, a member organization has recently
consented in a Stipulation of Facts and Consent to Penalty to a fine of $1.5 million in a matter
that included, among other things, having a research analyst participate in a road show, and a
research analyst giving statements that were not fair and balanced.
There are a number of cases that are now under investigation by NYSE Enforcement. The cases
include: research analysts selectively disclosing material non-public information; improper
disclosures in research reports; research analysts trading in securities in violation of the SRO
Rule blackout prohibitions; research analysts expressing opinions privately about securities they
cover that were inconsistent with their published research reports; improper influence of
investment banking on research compensation; lack of supervisory analyst qualifications;
initiating coverage of a stock during a quiet period; violations of information barrier provisions;
violations of the gatekeeper provisions; and books and records violations.
As noted above, there is also an investigation of approximately 30 firms being jointly conducted
by the SROs to determine whether firms are in compliance with the requirement to register
foreign research analysts who participate in the preparation of member research.
IV.
IMPACT OF RULES: ACADEMIC STUDIES AND MEDIA REPORTS
Academic studies and media reports provide both empirical and anecdotal evidence regarding the
impact of the SRO Rules,42 and most have concluded that the rules have helped to address the
conflict-of-interest issues that previously compromised the objectivity and reliability of research.
Indeed, as the author of one study states:
[T]he new regulations were successful in their objectives of
curbing the excessive optimism driven by the conflicts of interest
. . . The distribution of recommendations is now very balanced
between buy and sell recommendations . . . and the link between
the presence of underwriting business and excess optimism in
recommendations was removed.43

40
See Exchange HPD 04-136 (NYSE Aug. 11, 2004).
41
The firm was in violation of NYSE Rule 472(b)(4), which prohibits member firms from providing a subject
company with draft research reports containing the research summary, rating or price target information.
42
We note that some studies and news articles refer only to the impact of the Global Settlement. Since the
key provisions of the Global Settlement closely track those of the SRO Rules, we believe those studies and
news articles that address the impact of the settlement terms are a fair proxy for the impact of the SRO
Rules.
43
Leonardo Madureira, Conflicts of Interest, Regulations, and Stock Recommendations, at 4 (Nov. 2004)
(Working paper, Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania) (the “Madureira Study”). See also, e.g.,
Ohad Kadan, Tzachi Zach & Rong Wang, Are Analysts Still Biased? The Effect of the Global Settlement
and Regulation FD, Abstract (Mar. 2005) (Working paper, John M. Olin School of Business, Washington
Page 317 of 468

--- PAGE 318 ---
17

While many other studies and media stories similarly support the effectiveness of the SRO
Rules, some contend that the impact has been minimal and that certain conflicts persist. Briefly
summarized below are findings and conclusions from a survey of pertinent studies and news
articles.
Research Is More Balanced
(a)
Changes in ratings distributions
Several academic studies have found that the percentage of buy recommendations decreased and
the percentage of sell and hold recommendations increased following adoption of the SRO Rules
and Global Settlement. These ratings distribution trends suggest that research analysts are
issuing more balanced stock recommendations.
For example, one study found that the percentage of buy recommendations peaked at 74% of all
recommendations at the end of the second quarter of 2000 and decreased to 42% of all
recommendations at the end of June 2003.44 During the same period, sell recommendations
increased from 2% to 17% of all recommendations, while hold recommendations increased from
24% to 41%.45
The Barber Study concludes that “taking a closer look at the trends in 2002 makes clear that [the
SRO Rules]46 likely did play a role in analysts’ shift away from buy recommendations.”47
Indeed, the study notes that the most pronounced changes in ratings distributions occurred during
the weeks leading up to the September 9, 2002 deadline for implementing the ratings distribution
disclosure requirement under the SRO Rules.48 The single biggest change occurred on Sunday,
September 8, 2002 when buy recommendations decreased from 57% to 53% and sell
recommendations increased from 8% to 11%.49 Adjusting for certain factors, the authors
calculate that there was a greater decrease in the percentage of buys and a greater increase in the
percentage of sells and holds following implementation of the SRO Rules than otherwise would
have been expected.50

University) (the “Kadan Study”) (“the Global Settlement was effective in reducing conflicts of interests
[sic] between research and investment banking departments in financial services firms”).
44
Brad Barber, Reuven Lehavy, Maureen McNichols & Brett Trueman, Buys, Holds, And Sells: The
Distribution Of Investment Banks’ Stock Ratings And The Implications For The Profitability Of Analysts’
Recommendations, at 3, 12 (Sept. 2005) (Working paper, Graduate School of Management, University of
California, Davis, Ross School of Business, University of Michigan, Graduate School of Business, Stanford
University and Anderson Graduate School of Management, University of California, Los Angeles) (the
“Barber Study”).
45
Id.
46
While the authors refer solely to NASD Rule 2711, they state that all conclusions apply to NYSE Rule 472
as well. Id. at 1, n.1.
47
Id. at 13.
48
Id.
49
Id. at 13-14.
50
Id. at 15.
Page 318 of 468

--- PAGE 319 ---
18

The Madureira Study found similar results. That study looked at analyst recommendations for
the period July 1995 through December 2003 and found that prior to the SRO Rules and Global
Settlement, the bulk of consensus recommendations were concentrated in the strong buy and buy
categories (accounting for 60% or more of the stocks in the sample) and sell recommendations
were “virtually absent.”51 However, from July 2002 through December 2003, “a completely
different pattern emerges.”52 For example, in September 2002, the fraction of stocks in the
pessimistic category (sell and strong sell) jumped from 3% to approximately 20%.53 The author
found similar patterns with respect to initiation of coverage and ratings upgrades and
downgrades, finding that brokerage houses leaned less toward optimistic ratings after the new
regulations took effect.54
Both the Madureira and Kadan studies found the most decided changes in ratings distributions at
firms that maintained or pursued investment banking transactions with covered companies. The
Madureira Study found that, prior to the SRO Rules and Global Settlement, the presence of an
underwriting business with the subject company implied a 50% increase in the odds that a new
recommendation would be optimistic.55 However, the study found that the effect has “largely
disappeared” after the new regulations took effect.56
The Kadan Study similarly found that regulatory measures enacted to separate research from
investment banking have resulted in less optimistic research by analysts whose firms had or
sought investment banking business with companies the analyst covered (an “affiliated” analyst).
The study found that prior to the Global Settlement, affiliated analysts generated more optimistic
recommendations and long-term growth forecasts than their unaffiliated counterparts; however,
those differences have now been eliminated.57 Consistent with the Barber and Madureira
studies, the Kadan Study found a decrease in the percentage of affiliated analysts’ buy
recommendations and an increase in their hold and sell recommendations following the Global
Settlement.58 The authors found a similar but less dramatic shift in ratings distribution with
respect to unaffiliated analyst recommendations.59
In a subsequent paper combining the Madureira and Kadan studies, the authors explained that
analysts changed their behavior in an asymmetric way after adoption of the SRO Rules.60

51
Madureira Study at 17-18.
52
Id. at 18.
53
Id.
54
Id. at 21.
55
Id. at 4.
56
Id.
57
Kadan Study at 4, 26.
58
Id. at 21-22, Table 6.
59
Id. at 22.
60
Ohad Kadan, Leonardo Madureira, Rong Wang & Tzachi Zach, Conflicts of Interest and Stock
Recommendations - The Effects of the Global Settlement and Recent Regulations, at 25 (July 2005)
(Working paper, John M. Olin School of Business, Washington University and Weatherhead School of
Management, Case Western Reserve University).
Page 319 of 468

--- PAGE 320 ---
19

Analysts now behave similarly when deciding whether to post an optimistic recommendation,
and the likelihood of receiving an optimistic recommendation no longer depends on whether the
analyst’s firm participated in an equity offering for the subject company.61 However, affiliated
analysts are still reluctant to issue pessimistic recommendations for companies that have had a
recent equity offering.62
One recent academic study found lesser changes in ratings distributions since the Global
Settlement.63 The author analyzed data for each of the ten Global Settlement firms and found
that prior to the settlement, between 28.4% (in 2002) to 39.8% (in 2000) of recommendations
across the ten firms carried a firm’s highest rating. After the settlement, top recommendations
comprised between 31.8% (in 2003) and 39% (in 2004) of all recommendations.64 The
percentage of the most negative recommendations decrease from a pre-settlement range of
24.1% (in 2000) to 32.4% (in 2002) to a post-settlement range of 18.8% (in 2003) and 12.8% (in
2004).65 The author notes that the numbers may be explained by factors other than bias, such as
analysts’ accurate and unbiased expectation of investment value in the post-settlement period or
the fact that analysts may intentionally have skewed their coverage post-settlement to stocks that
they expect will outperform the market.66
A number of news articles buttress the conclusion that sell-side analysts are less biased after
implementation of the SRO Rules and/or the Global Settlement and now are more prone to issue
downgrades and sell recommendations. According to a recent article, “sell-side analysts do
appear to be more discerning,” noting that sell ratings, which accounted for less than 2% of the
ratings published on Wall Street in 2002, were up to between 10% and 15% of the ratings at all
major brokerages.67 Another article reported in August 2003 that sell recommendations
represented 15-25% of overall opinions, attributing the trend at least in part to adoption of the
SRO Rules.68 According to The Wall Street Journal, at one point in 2000, 95% of the stocks in
the S&P 500 had no sells at all and no stock had more than one sell rating; today, only 38% are
without sell recommendations, 62% have at least one sell and 9% have five sells or more.69

61
Id.
62
Id. at 25-26.
63
Leslie Boni, Analyzing the Analysts After the Global Settlement, at 5 (Aug. 25, 2005) (Working paper,
University of New Mexico) (the “Boni Study”).
64
Id. at 13.
65
Id.
66
Id. at 14.
67
Nat Worden, Mixed Returns on Spitzer Research Settlement, The Street.com, Apr. 22, 2005,
http://www.thestreet.com/markets/natworden/10218183.html. See also Dan Ackman, Wall Street Tries To
Say ‘Sell’, Forbes.com, June 20, 2003, http://www.forbes.com/2003/06/20/cx_da_0620topnews_print.html
(in June 2003, 43% of recommendations were buy, 46.6% were hold and 10.5% were sell, compared with
June 2000, when 74.6% of all recommendations were buy and only 0.7% were sell); Facts Without Fiction,
Crystal Research Assoc., LLC, Issue 3 (Winter 2005); Analysts Say ‘Sell’ A Lot More Often, Reuters News
Service, May 18, 2003, http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/business/mym/1914061.html.
68
Andrew Leckey, Dumping Stock Shouldn’t Be Such A Hard Sell, Chicago Tribune, Aug. 12, 2003, at C4.
69
E.S. Browning, Analysts Keep Misfiring With ‘Sell’ Ratings, Wall St. J., Apr. 11, 2005, at C1.
Page 320 of 468

--- PAGE 321 ---
20

Some news stories also report that bias still exists, particularly at larger firms with investment
banking businesses.70 According to one report, the top ten Wall Street firms give a higher
percentage of buy ratings – 46% versus 40% – to those companies with which they do
investment banking business.71 Another article reports that many firms still maintain only 0-6%
sell recommendations.72 Finally, one news article reports that small firms may be slightly more
likely to issue buy recommendations than the Global Settlement firms.73
(b)
Correlation between recommendations and earnings forecasts
A recent academic study attempted to measure research bias after the SRO Rules by examining
the relationship between earnings forecasts and recommendation profitability across three groups
of sell-side analysts: “top-tier” analysts at the top investment banks, other investment bank
analysts and non-investment bank analysts.74 Absent bias, the authors believe that there should
be a strong correlation between accuracy in predicting earnings and profiting from following
analyst recommendations since most recommendations are derived from earnings analysis. The
authors further posit that bias is more likely to appear in recommendations than earnings
forecasts because analysts’ reputations are tied more closely to accurately predicting earnings.
During the 1993 to 2000 period, the study found a “positive and significant association” between
forecast accuracy and recommendation profitability for non-investment bank analysts, but no
such relation for top-tier analysts and other investment bank analysts.75 The authors suggest that
this finding demonstrates that before the SRO Rules, the presence of conflicts at investment
banks resulted in overly optimistic recommendations disconnected from earnings forecasts.76
However, in the period following the Global Settlement and implementation of the SRO Rules,
the study found such positive correlation between earnings forecast accuracy and
recommendation profitability for analysts employed by top-tier investment banks, suggesting
that “the increased awareness of the conflicts of interest and the regulatory changes might have
had their desired effect.”77

70
See, e.g., Amey Stone, Yes, Wall Street Research Is Better, BusinessWeek Online, June 28, 2004,
http://businessweek.com/bwdaily/dnflash/jun2004/nf20040628_1253_db014.htm (“some might conclude
that bias still exists”).
71
Id.
72
Joseph McCafferty, Reform of Sell-side Research is Creating A Variety of New Headaches for
Corporations, CFO Magazine, May 2003. See also Leckey, supra note 68.
73
Susanne Craig, Research Rules Trickle Down To Small Firms, Wall St. J. Online, Jan. 18, 2004,
http://online.wsj.com/article/o,,SB107446466140004574,00.html.
74
Yonca Ertimur, Jayanthi Sunder & Shyam V. Sunder, Measure for Measure: An Examination of the
Association between Forecast Accuracy and Recommendation Profitability of Sell-Side Analyst (Mar.
2005) (Working paper, Graduate School of Business, Stanford University and Kellogg School of
Management, Northwestern University) (the “Ertimur Study”).
75
Id. at 4.
76
Id. at 2.
77
Id. at 19.
Page 321 of 468

--- PAGE 322 ---
21

Research Is More Reliable, Accurate And Informative For Investors
Recent studies and a number of news articles suggest that the quality of research and value to
investors has improved since adoption of the SRO Rules. For example, one article reports that
the “most important change for the better is in the quality of analysis . . . written commentary in
stock reports is more independent, more thought-provoking, and better represents the upside and
downside potential for a stock than the bubble era’s much-hyped reports.”78 And in numerous
interviews, portfolio managers attest to the improvement.79 Another article reports that “the
investment community is now benefiting from more diverse research strategies, with access to
reports that are less restricted and more user-friendly.”80 As discussed in more detail below,
research has also become more trusted by the market and more reliable and meaningful for
investors.

(a)
Ratings reflect their plain meanings
The SRO Rules require that ratings be consistent with their plain meanings, and several studies
have concluded that ratings indeed are now truer and therefore more predictive for investors. For
example, the Kadan Study found that following the Global Settlement, the price reaction in the
market to buy recommendations has been “significantly more positive” and the price reaction to
hold recommendations has been “significantly less negative.”81 In other words, the market now
accepts ratings at face value and stocks trade consistent with the plain meanings of the
recommendations. According to the Kadan Study, these results suggest that buy and hold
recommendations are now “more informative to investors.”82 As for sell recommendations, the
Kadan Study found more mixed results.83 The Madureira Study also found that firms now
generally seem to “mean what they say” when issuing hold and sell recommendations,84
concluding that “brokerage houses no longer are disguising pessimistic recommendations as
neutral ratings.”85 In contrast, before the SRO Rules and Global Settlement, a hold rating often
was tantamount to a sell recommendation,86 which would generate far greater negative price
reaction in the market than the author has found since implementation of the regulations.

78
Stone, supra note 70 (in the “bad old days,” research on the same company was “often barely
distinguishable” among research firms).
79
Id. See also McCafferty, supra note 72 (most experts expect analysts to “dig deeper into the companies
they cover”).
80
Facts Without Fiction, supra note 67, at 1 (noting that research is now “a competitive marketplace of
versatile and diverse research providers”). See also SIA Research Management Conference: Reflections on
Two Years Since the Global Settlement, SIA Research Reports, Vol. VI, No. 9 (Sept. 30, 2005) (“panelists
agreed that there is a far greater variety of research products and services available today”).
81
Kadan Study at 20.
82
Id.
83
Id.
84
Madureira Study at 3, 25-26.
85
Id. at 25, 26. The study did, however, find some negative market reactions to hold recommendations issued
by non-settling firms.
86
Madureira Study at 2.

Page 322 of 468

--- PAGE 323 ---
22

However, one recent academic study has found that investors are less responsive to analyst
recommendations. The Boni Study found that market participants on average respond less to
recommendation changes made by the ten settlement firms after the Global Settlement (i.e., stock
prices increase less on upgrades and decrease less on downgrades than they did prior to the
Global Settlement).87 The author notes that it is possible that retail investors react to analyst
recommendations as they did before the settlement but institutional investors respond less.88
(b)
Recommendations may be more accurate and predictive of investment
profitability
Reports suggest that research has become more accurate following implementation of the SRO
Rules and the Global Settlement, which served “as a wake-up call for many sell-side research
professionals . . . . As a result, broker/dealers and investment banks are now paying much more
attention to the accuracy of their research recommendations.”89
And there is evidence that investors who follow recommendations may be seeing improved
returns. For example, the Barber Study concluded that the disclosure requirements in the SRO
Rules provide investors with helpful information to assess the value of a research analyst’s
recommendation and to predict profitability by investing consistent with those recommendations.
The authors found that prior to the implementation of the SRO Rules, upgrades from brokers
with the highest percentage of pessimistic ratings outperformed by an average of 50 basis points
those brokers that tended to have a more optimistic ratings distribution.90 The obverse also held
true: downgrades to hold or sell from the more optimistic brokers significantly outperformed
investments in stocks downgraded by brokers with more pessimistic ratings distributions.91 The
authors note that these differences have effectively evaporated after implementation of the SRO
Rules, leading to their conclusion that the ratings distribution disclosure requirement has made
research more transparent for investors.92
According to Starmine, a firm that rates analyst performance, following analysts’ advice would
have had a slightly negative impact on portfolios on average in 2002; however, in 2003, it would
have added 2.2 percentage points to returns.93 In 2004, analysts outperformed benchmarks by

87
Boni Study at 19.
88
Id. However, this seems inconsistent with the author’s observation that according to polls, most
institutional investors said that they largely ignored analysts’ recommendation ratings prior to the Global
Settlement. Id. at 3.
89
Integrity Research Assoc. & Meghan Leerskov, Gauging The Independent Edge, Buyside, June 2004, at 61,
66. See also Stone, supra note 70 (quoting a senior analyst at First Call as saying that research over the
prior two years “has become more objective, more original, and more accurate”).
90
Barber Study at 6, 31.
91
Id.
92
Id. at 36.
93
Stone, supra note 70. See also Daniel Gross, The Best Stock Tips in Town - Buy When These Guys Say
Buy, Not When Those Guys Say Buy, Aug. 4, 2004, http://slate.msn.com/id/2104760 (according to a Smith
Barney study, investors who heeded consensus advice from mid-2001 through mid-2003 would have lost
money, including a loss of more than 35% in the fourth quarter of 2001; however, there were two straight
Page 323 of 468

--- PAGE 324 ---
23

1.3 percentage points.94 In addition, by 2005, five of the top ten best-performing research shops
were sell-side brokerages, as opposed to two years ago, when independent analysts occupied
nine of the top ten spots.95
On the other hand, the Boni Study found very little change in the performance of analyst
recommendations. The Boni Study found that stocks that received the strongest
recommendations of settling firm analysts outperformed the S&P 500 index both before and after
the Global Settlement.96 The study found the same to be true for stocks that received the
analysts’ worst ratings and in fact, more often than not, such stocks outperformed those stocks
that received analysts’ strongest recommendations both before and after the Global Settlement.97
In discussing these findings, the author noted that both before and after the Global Settlement,
recommended stocks that outperformed the S&P 500 index did so at least in part because they
are riskier investments on average.98
Some news reports also have suggested that the accuracy of research has not improved
appreciably as a result of the SRO Rules. An analysis performed for The Wall Street Journal
indicates that analysts are doing no better a job of picking stocks than they were before the
research scandals.99 The article reported that since 2000, “even though Wall Street supposedly
has become more discriminating,” stocks with large proportions of sell ratings are performing
better than those with buy and hold ratings.100 In 2003-2004, stocks with the most sell ratings
rose 36% on average, while those with the most buys rose just over 25%.101
Research Ratings Have Been Simplified
The SRO Rules also have led to widespread adoption of simplified ratings systems. As the
Madureira Study explained, the new ratings systems are simplified in terms of the number of
ratings categories and the meaning among analysts is “very uniform.”102 Eight of the ten Global
Settlement firms adopted new ratings system in 2002, and many of the next largest brokerage

quarters of positive performance in the second half of 2003); Melissa Lee & John Metaxas, Change Comes
Slowly To Wall St. Research, Apr. 26, 2004, http://msnbc.msn.com/id/4816690/print/1/displaymode/1098.
94
Matt Krantz, Analysts Deliver Better Advice, Feb. 9, 2005, http://www.investars.com/articles20050209.asp;
Jane J. Kim, Stock Research Gets More Reliable, Wall St. J., June 7, 2005, at D1.
95
Worden, supra note 67. See also Kim, supra note 94 (some of the brokerage firms that were part of the
Global Settlement have climbed higher in rankings of the best-performing research shops).
96
Boni Study at 5.
97
Id.
98
Id. at 5-6.
99
Browning, supra note 69.
100
Id.
101
Id.
102
Madureira Study at 13. The author noted that the changes in ratings systems came about in response to the
SRO Rules, which “express[ed] the regulators’ concern about ratings systems that were loosely defined and
perhaps not properly understood by the research’s clients.” Id. at 11.
Page 324 of 468

--- PAGE 325 ---
24

houses began to adopt new systems around the same time.103 Only one of the new ratings
systems was adopted before the SRO Rules became effective in July 2002, and many came on
line contemporaneous with the September 9, 2002 implementation date of the SRO Rules ratings
distribution requirements.104 Most large brokerage houses now use a three-tier ratings system,
and every new ratings system adopted after 2001 is a three-tier system.105
Some news articles indicate that research can still be confusing for investors, since not all
brokerages have adopted new ratings systems, and there is no mandated or accepted uniform
ratings system for those that have them.106
Conflicts Of Interest Have Been Reduced But Not Eliminated
Numerous articles provide anecdotal evidence that the conflicts of interest arising from the close
relationship of research and investment banking have been mitigated following implementation
of the SRO Rules and Global Settlement. For example, one investment bank had to drop out of a
large IPO in May 2005 after its top media research analyst told the firm’s senior bankers that
they were overpricing the shares.107 In another example, analysts at two firms that launched a
recent hot IPO began coverage on the stock with an “underperform” rating.108
However, a December 2004 Newsweek article reports that despite the regulatory changes and
Global Settlement, the “big financial firms are still rife with conflicts that put their own interests,
and those of big banking clients, ahead of everyone else’s.”109 The article cites as evidence of
such conflicts the fact that analysts can still meet with executives around the time they are
considering which investment bankers to hire and investment banking fees continue to flow into
a pool of money used to pay analysts.110 Another article reports that “at some firms, banking and
research were still a little too cozy” and companies looking for underwriters “still want to be sure
they’ll get positive research coverage once their stock is issued.”111 According to the article,

103
Id. at 11.
104
Id. at 13; see also Barber Study at 14.
105
Madureira at 13. The result of the change in ratings system was that many outstanding recommendations
were downgraded. Id. at 14. More than 90% of the stocks newly rated pessimistic were rated at least
neutral under the old system, and more than 40% of the stocks newly rated neutral were rated at least
buy/strong buy under the old system. Id.
106
Susanne Craig & Ann Davis, Analyze This: Research Is Fuzzier Than Ever, Wall St. J., Apr. 26, 2004 at C1
(ratings are not comparable across firms because the SRO rules do not require a uniform methodology).
107
Andrew Ross Sorkin & Jeff Leeds, Has Wall Street Changed Its Tune?, June 19, 2005, http://boycott-
riaa.com/article/17252 (stating that “[t]hroughout Wall Street, research analysts at major investment banks
are increasingly showing a new sense of independence”). See also Joseph Nocera, Wall Street on the Run,
June 14, 2004, http://www.pbs.org/wsw/news/fortunearticle_20040614_02.html (reporting that there have
been “plenty of stories about analysts, freed from pressure from bankers, who vetoed important
underwriting deals”).
108
Matt Krantz, IPO underwriters’ ratings get tougher, Baidu.com hit, USA Today, Sept. 14, 2005.
109
Charles Gasparino, The Street’s Dark Side, Newsweek (U.S. Edition), Dec. 20, 2004, at 40.
110
Id.
111
Nocera, supra note 107.
Page 325 of 468

--- PAGE 326 ---
25

research continues to be used to attract banking business.112 Another article suggests that
“change has come more slowly to smaller securities firms.”113 The article tells the story of one
analyst who, after adoption of the SRO Rules, received a voice mail from a banker scolding him
for a negative report and threatening that the analyst’s compensation is still determined by
investment banking revenue.114
A Harvard Business School professor who has studied research analysts said in an interview that
even where research is separated from investment banking, conflicts of interest persist.115 These
conflicts arise because (1) sell-side analysts have incentives to hype stocks to generate trading
business through large institutional investors who may be clients of the brokerage firm, and (2)
once a sell-side analyst has prompted an institutional client to take a large position in a stock
recommended by the analyst, the analyst faces a disincentive to downgrade the stock and thereby
impact the value of the client’s position.116
In addition, while the SRO Rules may have lessened the internal pressure on analysts, there have
been a number of reports indicating that analysts are coming under external pressure – retaliation
by issuers against analysts who have downgraded their stock.117 Some say that the regulatory
reforms splitting investment banking from stock research could shift the source of pressures from
investment banking to the issuers.118
Research Coverage Has Diminished
Several press accounts report that the number of companies covered by research analysts has
decreased since the implementation of the Global Settlement and SRO Rules. A recent report
says that since 2002, 691 companies have lost analyst coverage altogether and 99% of the

112
Id. See also Timing of Stock Issuance Raises Eyebrows After Upgrade, Wall St. J., Sept. 14, 2005, at C1
(within two days after research analyst upgraded stock, employing firm won the right to lead a stock issue
for the company).
113
Craig, supra note 73.
114
Id.
115
Ann Cullen, The Bias of Wall Street Analysts, Oct. 18, 2004,
http://hbswk.hbs.edu/tools/print_item.jhtml?id=4430&t=enterpreneurship.
116
Id.
117
Gretchen Morgenson, You’ll Never Do Research in This Town Again, N.Y. Times, July 31, 2005, at BU 1
(fear of retaliation from the companies they follow may explain analysts’ unreasoned optimism); Adrienne
Baker, Leader: Spitzer’s Next Challlenge? Apr. 2005,
http://ironthenet.com/feature.asp?current=1&articleID=4048 (in a survey of 732 analysts, 40% said they
felt shut out by a firm after they downgraded its equity and another 6% said that companies had threatened
to suspend banking relationships following a downgrade); Melissa Lee & John Metexas, When Companies
Behave Badly To Analysts, Apr. 29, 2004, http://msnbc.msn.com/id/4816980/print/1/displaymode/1098/;
Richard J. Wayman, Are Analysts ‘Too’ Independent? Apparently The French Think So, Jan. 30, 2004,
http://www.researchstock.com/cgi-bin/rview.cgi?c=bulls&rsrc=RC-20040130-F; Deborah Solomon &
Robert Frank, ‘You Don’t Like Our Stock? You Are Off The List’, Wall St. J., June 19, 2003, at C1;
Corporate Retaliation on Analysts, Apr. 8, 2003,
http://www.ironthenet.com/static/disclosure/USCanada/CorporateRetaliation0403.htm.
118
Solomon & Frank, supra note 117.
Page 326 of 468

--- PAGE 327 ---
26

companies that have lost coverage are smaller companies with a stock market value of less than
$1 billion.119 According to Reuters Research, as of January 2004, 666 companies in its database
of 4,075 had been “orphaned” by sell-side analysts, while in 2002, only 85 companies were left
without analyst coverage.120 Of the companies that have not been orphaned, 380 are down to a
pair of analysts, while 473 companies have just one.121 Similarly, a recent academic study has
found that the number of stocks covered by the ten Global Settlement firms has dropped an
average of 14% relative to 2000 and 20% relative to 2001.122 However, three of the ten firms
show little change or even an increase in the number of companies they covered pre- and post-
settlement.123
On the other hand, at least one article indicates that there has been no loss in coverage. In June
2004, First Call, which monitors and distributes analysts’ reports, said that as much research
coverage is being generated and that 4,158 companies were being covered, down from 4,257 in
June 2002.124
To the extent that coverage has diminished, some of the cutback has been attributed to the new
regulatory environment, while others say that it is not clear that the new regulations are wholly to
blame,125 and some blame “long-term economic forces.”126

119
Susanne Craig, Firm To Research Stock ‘Orphans’, Wall St. J., June 7, 2005, at C3. See also SIA Research
Reports, Vol. VI, No. 9, at 12 (“Panelists also agreed that there appears to be a decline in the coverage of
smaller stocks (those with market capitalization lower than $1 billion), which has a negative impact on
capital formation.”); Robert Scott Martin, Issuer-Paid Research Comes of Age, Buyside (2005),
http://www.buyside.com/archives/2005/0501/0501fidea.asp (64% of all publicly traded companies do not
have sell-side coverage and if over-the-counter stocks are included, the number jumps to 80%); Ritu Kalra,
Paid-For Research Scores With Investors, Reuters, July 17, 2004,
http://www.boston.com/business/articles/2004/07/17/paid_for_research_scores_with_investors/ (for
companies whose market capitalization is less than $500 million, overall coverage is down by more than
35% since 2001 and nearly 60% of all publicly traded companies in the U.S. get no coverage at all); Lee &
Metaxas, supra note 93 (Morgan Stanley cut stocks covered in North America by 26% and Merrill by
30%); Landon Thomas Jr., Changed Smith Barney Is Thin on Analysts, N.Y. Times, June 13, 2003, at C1
(Smith Barney discontinued coverage – at least temporarily – of close to 250 companies); McCafferty,
supra note 72 (in 1998, 6,100 companies drew coverage from at least one analyst, but by May 2003, that
number was down 30%, to 4,300).
120
Marie Leone, The Flight of The Sell-Side Analyst, July 8, 2004,
http://www.cfo.com/printable/article.cfm/3015019?f=options.
121
Id.
122
Boni Study at 4.
123
Id. at 12.
124
Stone, supra note 70 (noting that this decline may reflect the absence of IPOs and merger activity rather
than research changes).
125
Rachel McTague, Goldschmid Concerned About Reduction In Broker-Dealers’ Budgets For Research,
BNA, Inc., Sept. 21, 2004.
126
Martin, supra note 119.
Page 327 of 468

--- PAGE 328 ---
27

Research Industry Has Changed
There have been many reports that the “old research model is dead,”127 although little consensus
has emerged as to the new models. Summarized below are some additional reported changes in
the research industry, not discussed elsewhere in this section, since the implementation of the
SRO Rules and Global Settlement.
•
Institutional investors are diverting equity commission dollars away from Wall
Street’s traditional research to securing access to analysts and company
management.128
•
There has been a decrease in sell-side research staff and budgets in light of the
separation of research from investment banking revenue.129
•
Sell-side analysts are migrating to the buy-side/money management firms.130

127
Nocera, supra note 107. See also Kyle L. Brandon, Update on Research Analysts Related Issues, SIA
Research Reports, Vol. VI, No. 5, at 8 (May 27, 2005) (to date, “sell-side firms have not come up with an
answer to the question ‘what is the new business model after the global settlement?’”).
128
James Langton, Study Shows Institutions Moving Away From Wall St. Research, July 13, 2005,
http://www.investmentexecutive.com/client/en/News/ImprimerDetail.asp?Id=29645&IdSe.
129
SIA Research Reports, Vol. VI, No. 9, at 11 (one panelist estimated that research lost half of its funding
with the loss of investment banking revenues at the same time that commission revenue fell by 30%); Mara
Der Hovanesian & Amy Borrus, Can The Street Make Research Pay? In The Eliot Spitzer Era, It’s Looking
More and More Like An Expensive Luxury, Jan. 31, 2005,
http://www.capco.com/print.aspx?page=%2fpress.aspx%3fid%3d536 (research budgets at the seven
biggest U.S. securities firms have fallen by more than 40% since 2000); McTague, supra note 125
(research budgets are down by as much as one-third at some broker-dealer firms); Leone, supra note 120
(the number of sell-side analysts has decreased by 15-20% over the last few years); Adam Piore, Can
Investors Get An Honest Stock Tip On (Or Off) Wall Street?, Newsweek Int’l, Mar. 2004,
http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/4468645 (HSBC announced that it would stop picking stocks altogether,
declaring the old research model “broken”); Ann Davis, Increasingly, Stock Research Serves The Pros, Not
‘Little Guy’, Wall St. J., Mar. 5, 2004, at A1; Daniel Dunaief, Analysts Abandon Wall St., N.Y. Daily
News, Feb. 24, 2003, http://www.nydailynews.com/business/v-pfriendly/story/61941p-57842c.html
(analysts are leaving Wall Street and research has become more bureaucratic in light of new regulations).
130
Greg Crawford, Money Managers Beefing Up Their Research Staffs; Search For New Ideas Spurs Firms
Into Action, Investment News, June 20, 2005, at 15 (money managers are beefing up their research staffs
and between early 2003 and early 2005, the average research staff at U.S. buy-side institutions increased
from 9.3 to 10.5 people); Bill Slocum, Is There A Future For Wall Street Research?, June 27, 2003,
http://www.researchstock.com/cgi-bin/rview.cgi?c=outside&rsrc=RA-20030627-F (in-house equity
analysts are being asked to cover more industries and companies than ever before); Sell Side Gets A Boost,
June 23, 2003, http://www.ironthenet.com/newsarticle.asp?current=1&articleID=2761 (reporting on the
increased pressure on buy-side analysts to cover more industries); Paula Lace, Sell-Side Analysts Make A
Break For The Buy Side, TheStreet.com, Mar. 5, 2003,
http://www.thestreet.com/markets/paulalace/10072239.html (the shift to the buy-side could result in
making the research industry “even more clubby”).
Page 328 of 468

--- PAGE 329 ---
28

•
Many companies are outsourcing research staff to foreign countries, such as
India.131
•
Research is not going to the small investor, whom the regulations were designed
to protect, but to institutional investors.132
•
Issuer-paid research is on the rise as a result of the loss of coverage.133
V.
REVIEW OF RULE PROVISIONS
A.
Analytical Framework for Review
The SRO staffs have conducted a section-by-section review of the SRO Rules to determine
whether any additions, deletions or amendments are warranted. In evaluating each provision, the
SRO staffs have been guided by several analytical touchstones. First, the SRO staffs looked to
the principles that underpinned the original rule development to see if a provision is
accomplishing its intended purpose. Second, the SRO staffs reviewed findings from
examinations, sweeps and enforcement actions. Third, the SRO staffs considered interpretive
requests and member questions. Fourth, the SRO staffs compared the rules to the provisions of
the Global Settlement. Fifth, the SRO staffs considered potential gaps or overbreadth in the
existing rules. Finally, the SRO staffs considered suggestions from industry groups and
members.
B.
Section-by-Section Review
Set out below is a discussion of those provisions for which the SRO staffs recommend
amendments or further interpretation to the rules. The SRO staffs believe that the other
provisions of the SRO Rules are operating effectively and efficiently in achieving their purpose,

131
Der Hovanesian & Borrus, supra note 129; Davis, supra note 129; Khozem Merchant & David Wells,
Banks Move Analysts’ Work To India, Financial Times (London), Aug. 20, 2003, at 1.
132
Davis, supra note 129 (“the most pioneering, market-moving research is going exclusively to big mutual
funds and the private investment pools knows as hedge funds”).
133
SIA Research Reports, Vol. VI, No. 9, at 12 (summarizing panel discussion on the issue of “made-to-order”
research tailored to meet client requests); Martin, supra note 119 (paid-for researchers “have taken strict
measures to keep their work as independent as humanly possible”); Kalra, supra note 119 (portfolio
managers are overcoming their skepticism of issuer-paid research, citing impressive performance and
access to information on companies large Wall Street investment banks do not cover); Melissa Lee & John
Metaxas, Beware of Wall St. ‘Research For Hire’, Apr. 28, 2004,
http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/4816907/print/1/displaymode/1098/ (current regulations are not strong
enough to protect investors vis-à-vis research for hire and if an analyst is not associated with a broker-
dealer, perhaps “caveat emptor” should apply); Ann Davis, Wall Street, Companies It Covers, Agree on
Honesty Policy, Wall St. J., Mar. 11, 2004, at C1 (discussing best practices guidelines that were a joint
effort between the Association for Investment Management and Research and the National Investor
Relations Institute); Lynn Cowan, Research-For-Hire Shops Growing, Seeking Legitimacy, Wall St. J.
Online, July 7, 2003, http://online.wsj.com/article_print/0,,BT_CO_20030707_001632,00.html; Thomas S.
Mulligan, Ignored by Wall St., Firms Turn To Research-For-Hire Outfits; As The Fee-Based Industry Tries
To Fill The Gap Left By The Withdrawal of Analyst Coverage, Some Experts Have Reservations, Los
Angeles Times, June 3, 2003; McCafferty, supra note 72.
Page 329 of 468

--- PAGE 330 ---
29

and therefore no changes are recommend to those provisions at this time. In making the
recommendations, the SRO staffs are mindful that consideration must be given to the mandates
of Sarbanes-Oxley and that, in certain instances, implementing the recommendation may require
an exemption from the SEC. The SRO staffs did not attempt to address every interpretive issue
that may be outstanding and will continue to entertain interpretive requests on a case-by-case
basis and to publish, as warranted, additional joint memoranda setting forth key interpretations.
1.
Definitions
Current Rules
The SRO Rules currently include the following defined terms:
“Public appearance” means any participation in a seminar, forum (including an interactive
electronic forum), radio, television or print media interview, or other public speaking activity, or
the writing of a print media article, in which a research analyst makes a recommendation or
offers an opinion concerning an equity security.
“Research report” means a written or electronic communication that includes an analysis of
equity securities of individual companies or industries, and that provides information reasonably
sufficient upon which to base an investment decision.
“Research analyst” means the associated person who is primarily responsible for, and any
associated person who reports directly or indirectly to such a research analyst in connection with,
preparation of the substance of a research report, whether or not any such person has the job title
of “research analyst.”
Recommended Changes
The SRO staffs recommend several changes to the definitions in NASD Rule 2711 and NYSE
Rule 472 to make certain interpretations express in the rule language and to circumscribe the
scope of communications subject to the SRO Rules.
“Public Appearance”
The SRO staffs recommend amending the definition of “public appearance” to codify an
interpretation consistent with SEC Regulation AC that the term applies only to appearances
involving 15 or more separate investors. The SRO staffs further recommend that the definition
also codify an exception to that interpretation contained in NASD Notice to Members 04-18 and
NYSE Information Memo 04-10: that it excludes password-protected Webcasts, conference
calls and similar events with 15 or more existing customers, provided that the participants
previously received the most current research report or other documentation that includes the
disclosures required by the SRO Rules and that the research analyst making the appearance
corrects or updates any disclosures that are inaccurate, misleading or no longer applicable.
“Research Report”
The SRO staffs recommend several amendments to the definition of “research report.”
Page 330 of 468

--- PAGE 331 ---
30

First, the SRO staffs suggest codifying the various exceptions to the definition set forth in the
two joint interpretive memoranda.134 These exceptions essentially parallel those in SEC
Regulation AC and the Global Settlement and are set forth below:
• reports discussing broad-based indices, such as the Russell 2000 or S&P 500 index;
• reports commenting on economic, political or market (including trading) conditions;
• technical or quantitative analysis concerning the demand and supply for a sector, index or
industry based solely on trading volume and price;
• reports that recommend increasing or decreasing holdings in particular industries or
sectors or types of securities;
• statistical summaries of multiple companies’ financial data and broad-based summaries
or listings of recommendations or ratings contained in previously-issued research reports,
provided that such summaries or listings do not include any narrative discussion or
analysis of individual companies; and
• notices of ratings or price target changes that do not contain any narrative discussion or
analysis of the subject company, provided that the member simultaneously directs the
readers of the notice as to where to obtain the most recent research report on the subject
company that includes the disclosures required by the rule, and the notice does not refer
to a research report that contains materially misleading disclosure, such as where the
disclosures are outdated or no longer applicable.
In addition, the SRO staffs recommend codifying two other exceptions to the definition of
“research report” contained in the March 2004 Joint Memorandum and SEC Regulation AC.
These exceptions exclude certain communications even if they include information reasonably
sufficient upon which to base an investment decision or a recommendation or rating of individual
securities or companies:
• any communication delivered to fewer than 15 persons; and
• periodic reports, solicitations or other communications prepared for current or
prospective investment company shareholders (or similar beneficial owners of trusts and
limited partnerships) or discretionary investment account clients that discuss individual
securities, provided that such communications discuss past performance or the basis for
previously made discretionary investment decisions.
Second, the SRO staffs recommend explicitly excluding from the definition sales material
regarding registered investment companies and direct participation programs (“DPPs”). Since
investment companies and DPPs are “equity securities” as defined in Section 3(a)(11) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, related sales material that contains an analysis of those

134
See NASD Notices to Members 02-39 (July 2002) and 04-18 (Mar. 2004) and NYSE Information Memos
02-26 (June 26, 2002) and 04-10 (Mar. 9, 2004).
Page 331 of 468

--- PAGE 332 ---
31

securities and information sufficient upon which to base an investment decision technically is
covered by the definition. Yet sales material regarding investment companies is already subject
to a separate regulatory regime, including NASD Rule 2210, NYSE Rule 472 and SEC Rule 482,
and all advertisements and sales literature regarding investment companies and DPPs must be
filed with the NASD Advertising Regulation Department. Moreover, the SRO staffs do not
believe that the conflicts underpinning the SRO Rules are manifest to the same extent with
respect to research on investment companies and DPPs.
Third, the SRO staffs recommend codifying a longstanding interpretation that communications
that constitute prospectuses under the Securities Act of 1933, including free-writing prospectuses
as defined under the SEC’s recent Securities Offering Reform rules,135 are not considered
“research reports,” even if they meet the definitional elements. Such prospectuses facilitate
differing purposes from research reports and are subject to a separate comprehensive regulatory
scheme.
“Research Analyst”
Several industry members have urged the SROs to amend the definition of “research analyst” to
exclude any member personnel who are not principally engaged in the preparation or publication
of research reports – a limitation contained in the Global Settlement. The SRO Rules, in
accordance with the mandates of Sarbanes-Oxley, are constructed such that the author of a
communication that meets the definition of a “research report” is a “research analyst,”
irrespective of his or her title or primary job. This prevents firms from circumventing the rules
by redirecting through other channels, such as registered representatives or traders, potentially
biased research that is not subject to the SRO objectivity safeguards.
The SRO staffs believe it is important to maintain such communications as research reports
subject to the rules and those principally responsible for their preparation as research analysts.
However, the SRO staffs recommend consideration of a limited exemption from the registration
requirements for non-research personnel that produce research reports. The SRO staffs believe
that the registration and qualification requirements were intended for those individuals whose
principal job function is to produce research, while the balance of the SRO Rules are intended to
foster objective analysis of equity securities and transparency of certain conflicts and to provide
beneficial information to investors.
2.
Restrictions on Investment Banking Department Relationship with Research
Department
Current Rules
The SRO Rules permit investment banking and other non-research employees, other than legal
and compliance personnel, to review a research report before publication only to verify the
factual accuracy of information in the report or identify a potential conflict of interest. The rules
further require that an authorized legal or compliance official act as intermediary for all such
permissible communications.

135
Securities Offering Reform, Securities Act Release No. 8591 (July 19, 2005), 70 FR 44722 (Aug. 3, 2005).
Page 332 of 468

--- PAGE 333 ---
32

Recommended Changes
The SRO staffs recommend eliminating the provision that permits pre-publication review of
research by investment banking and other non-research personnel, other than by legal and
compliance. The SRO staffs believe that review of facts in a report by investment banking
personnel is unnecessary in light of the numerous other sources available to verify factual
information and only raises concerns about the objectivity of the report. Such review may invite
pressure on a research analyst from investment banking personnel that could be difficult to
monitor.136
The SRO staffs note that such factual review is not permitted under the terms of the Global
Settlement. Moreover, legal and compliance can adequately perform a conflict review without
sharing draft research reports with investment banking personnel.
3.
Restrictions on Solicitation of Investment Banking Business
Current Rules
The SRO Rules prohibit research analysts from participating in efforts to solicit investment
banking business, including pitch meetings with prospective clients.
Recommended Changes
This provision, which mirrors language in the Global Settlement, strikes at a core conflict that
can compromise research analysts’ objectivity when they and their research are utilized to win
business rather than provide dispassioned analysis. While the SRO staffs believe this provision
is operating effectively, some members have asked for additional guidance regarding references
to research analysts and research in pitch books and related meetings. The SRO staffs note that
the SEC has provided interpretive guidance to the parallel provisions of the Global Settlement
and concluded that it would be inconsistent with the purpose of the solicitation ban to include in
a pitch book or related presentation materials any information regarding an analyst employed by
a firm or an analyst’s views. The SRO staffs generally agree with that guidance and intend to
address this area in more detail in a future interpretive memorandum.
4.
Restrictions on Sales and Marketing Activities
Current Rules
The SRO Rules prohibit research analysts from participating in road shows related to investment
banking services transactions and from engaging in any communications regarding investment
banking services transactions with current or prospective customers in the presence of
investment banking personnel or company management. Investment banking personnel also are
prohibited from directing a research analyst to engage in sales or marketing efforts or to engage
in any communication with a current or prospective customer related to investment banking
transactions.

136
See, e.g., Craig, supra note 73.
Page 333 of 468

--- PAGE 334 ---
33

Recommended Changes
This provision, which is substantially the same as a comparable provision in the Global
Settlement, seeks to address potential conflicts of interest during the period that firms market
securities offerings for issuers. While the SRO staffs believe this provision is operating
effectively, some members have asked for additional guidance on whether research analysts can
listen to or view an investment banking or company-sponsored road show or other presentation
to investors or the analysts’ sales force.
The SRO staffs note that the SEC has provided interpretive guidance on the parallel provision of
the Global Settlement and concluded that it would not be inconsistent with this provision to
permit research analysts to listen to (“listen-only” mode, not identified as being present), or view
a live Webcast of a road show or other widely attended presentation to investors or the sales
force, so long as access is from a remote location (i.e., not at the same address as investment
banking, investors or the sales force). The SEC has further stated that if the road show or other
widely attended presentation to investors or the sales force is conducted at the firm’s offices,
research personnel may listen-in from the same address as investment banking, investors or the
sales force, but may not be in the same room as investment banking, investors or the sales force.
The SRO staffs generally agree with that guidance and intend to address this area in more detail
in a future interpretive memorandum.
5.
Restrictions on Publishing Research Reports and Public Appearances
Current Rules
The SRO Rules set forth, in accordance with the mandates of Sarbanes-Oxley, “quiet periods”
during which a member is prohibited from publishing or otherwise distributing a research report
and a research analyst is prohibited from making a public appearance. These quiet periods apply
in two circumstances: (1) after a public offering of securities and (2) before and after the
expiration, waiver or termination of a lock-up agreement entered into by a member with a subject
company that restricts the sale of securities by that company or its shareholders.
With respect to the former, the SRO Rules establish different quiet periods depending on
whether the offering is an IPO or secondary offering and whether the member acted as manager
or co-manager. A member that acted as a manager or co-manager of an IPO may not publish or
otherwise distribute research for 40 calendar days following the date of the offering; all other
members that participated as an underwriter or dealer in the offering are subject to a 25-day quiet
period. A ten-day quiet period applies only to the manager and co-manager of a secondary
offering.
The rules contain an exception that permits publication and distribution of research or a public
appearance concerning the effects of “significant news or a significant event on the subject
company” during the quiet period. The SRO staffs have interpreted this exception to apply only
to news or events that have a material impact on, or cause a material change to, a company’s
operation, earnings or financial condition. Another exception to the secondary offering quiet
period permits publication or distribution of research pursuant to SEC Rule 139 regarding a
subject company with “actively-traded securities” as defined in SEC Regulation M.
Page 334 of 468

--- PAGE 335 ---
34

Recommended Changes
The SRO staffs recommend several changes to the quiet periods surrounding public offerings
and lock-up expirations. In some cases, the SRO staffs offer alternative recommendations to
address these issues.

(a)
Quiet periods following public offerings of securities
The SRO staffs recommend unifying the IPO quiet periods for all underwriters and dealers
participating in the offering and tying them to the SEC’s rules regarding publication and
distribution of research. As such, the SRO staffs recommend amending the rules to apply a 25-
day quiet period to managers, co-managers, underwriters and dealers that participate in an IPO,
unless publication or distribution of the report or the public appearance is permitted by SEC rule
or interpretation.
The lengthier quiet period for managers and co-managers was intended to allow other voices to
publicly analyze and value a subject company before managers and co-managers – those
members vested with the greatest interest in seeing the stock price of the subject company go up
– weighed in with their reports and public appearances. At the time this provision was enacted,
it had been commonplace for managers and co-managers to initiate coverage with a positive
rating on a company they just brought public, irrespective of whether the stock price had already
risen well beyond the public offering price.
However, the SRO staffs recently have observed more circumstances where managers and co-
managers have been neutral or even negative with their initial post-quiet period report based on
price appreciation or other factors. Accordingly, the SRO staffs believe that the objectivity
safeguards of the SRO Rules and the certification requirement of SEC Regulation AC have
obviated the need for a longer quiet period for managers and co-managers than other
underwriters and dealers participating in an IPO. The SRO staffs also believe the change would
promote more information flow to investors and consistency with SEC regulations.
For some of the same reasons, the SRO staffs also recommend eliminating the quiet periods
following a secondary offering. Coupled with the protections of SEC Regulation AC and other
SRO Rule provisions, the SRO staffs believe that repeal of this provision would advance the
SEC’s purpose in its Securities Offering Reform rules to expand the ability of issuers to release
more information regarding their prospects and financial condition, without sacrificing the
reliability of the research. Along those lines, the existing SRO Rules already provide exceptions
for research reports on issuers with “actively-traded securities” as defined in SEC Regulation M.

(b)
Quiet periods around releases of lock-up agreements
The NASD staff recommends eliminating the quiet periods around the expiration, waiver or
termination of a lock-up agreement, provided members include an additional statement as part of
their SEC Regulation AC certification – or, alternatively, a separate certification – for research
issued during such periods. The quiet periods surrounding lock-up releases are intended to
prevent abusive “booster shot” reports by members to raise the stock price of a company just
before previously locked-up shares become freely saleable into the market by a company or its
major shareholders. While the SRO staffs continue to share the concern expressed by the former
Page 335 of 468

--- PAGE 336 ---
35

Acting Chair of the SEC137 that these periods pose heightened concerns about biased research,
the changes to internal structure of investment banks and the other safeguards imposed by the
rules appear to the NASD staff to have addressed these concerns, and have obviated the need for
a quiet period that inhibits the flow of information to the marketplace. Moreover, the NASD
staff believes that practical limitations inhibit effective administration of the provision. Most
notably, the SRO Rules do not require lock-up agreements, and the SROs often have no
jurisdiction over parties to them, including the subject company and its non-member
shareholders. The SROs therefore cannot always be the arbiter of whether certain facts
constitute, for example, a waiver or termination of a lock-up – a significant impediment to the
SROs’ ability to enforce this provision.
The NASD staff notes that under no circumstances are overly optimistic reports acceptable,
whether or not they occur around the expiration of a lock-up. To that end, the SRO Rules require
a reasonable basis for any recommendation or price target and the valuation method used to
determine a price target, while SEC Regulation AC requires certification that any such
recommendation or price target be genuinely held. Accordingly, the NASD staff believes an
effective alternative to the quiet periods would be to require that members include under
Regulation AC, or separately, an additional certification to having a bona fide reason for issuing
research within 15 days before and after a lock-up expiration.
On the other hand, the NYSE staff believes that the quiet period surrounding the expiration,
termination or waiver of a lock-up agreement should be maintained but perhaps reduced from the
current 15-day period to a five-day period. The NYSE staff believes that the regulatory concerns
that precipitated the promulgation of the prohibitions are still present. That is, the NYSE staff is
concerned that, absent a quiet period around the release of lock-up agreements, member firms
may issue “booster shot” reports that are intended to raise the stock price of a company just
before locked-up shares become freely saleable into the market by a company or its major
shareholders. The NYSE staff believes that, while the certification requirement of SEC
Regulation AC may have obviated the need for a longer quiet period for managers and co-
managers than other underwriters and dealers participating in an IPO, it does not support the
elimination of quiet periods around the release of lock-up agreements.
With respect to operational issues, the NYSE staff observes that the comments and concerns
initially made at the time of the rule proposal have not materialized. In this regard, there have
not been instances when the NYSE staff has found co-managers to have inadvertently published
research in violation of the quiet periods surrounding the waiver of lock-up agreements granted
by lead managers.138

137
Unger Testimony, supra note 5, at 229, 235.
138
The NYSE/NASD IPO Advisory Committee made the following recommendations: (1) require
prospectuses to include a clear description of lock-up agreements and whether the underwriter expects to
grant exceptions relating to hedging or other transactions; and (2) require improved disclosure regarding
exemptions by an underwriter to an IPO lock-up agreement, by mandating that underwriters notify issuers
prior to granting any exemption to a lock-up, and require issuers to file a current report on Form 8-K at
least one business day prior to the time the insider commences the transaction, and also that prior to the
transaction, the lead underwriter announces the exemption by broad communications to the investment
community through a major news service. See also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 50896 (Dec. 20,
Page 336 of 468

--- PAGE 337 ---
36

Moreover, the NYSE staff notes that while the NYSE may not have jurisdiction over some of the
participants to such agreements (e.g., the company and its shareholders), it does retain
jurisdiction over its member organizations that can issue research and as such can limit the
potential for any untoward conduct by maintaining this prohibition.
Lastly, the NYSE staff notes the recent strength of the IPO market139 and that such offerings
generally contain lock-up agreements. Accordingly, it believes that at this juncture it is
appropriate to maintain a form of prohibition absent some compelling empirical data/evidence to
the contrary.

(c)
Exceptions to quiet periods
As noted above, the rules contain an exception that permits publication and distribution of
research or a public appearance concerning the effects of “significant news or a significant event
on the subject company” during the quiet period. The SRO staffs have interpreted this exception
to apply only to news or events that have a material impact on, or cause a material change to, a
company’s operations, earnings or financial condition and that generally would trigger the filing
requirements of SEC Form 8-K. The SROs have not interpreted the exception to include
earnings announcements absent some other significant news or significant event because it was
felt that they generally are not a causal event or news items that materially affects a company’s
operations, earnings or financial condition.
The NYSE staff believes that exceptions to quiet periods should be consistent with SEC
requirements for the filing of Forms 8-K. In this regard, Item 2.02 (Results of Operations and
Financial Conditions) of Form 8-K requires, in part, a filing of such form if a registrant makes
any public announcement or release (including any update of an earlier announcement or release)
disclosing material non-public information regarding its results of operations or financial
condition. Accordingly, the NYSE staff recommends including an announcement of earnings as
an exception to the quiet periods as it will be consistent with SEC requirements and maintain a
flow of potentially sensitive information to the market and investors in a timely manner.140 The
NYSE staff also believes that an announcement of a change to earnings will, in all likelihood, be
accompanied by an announcement of some type of causal events. Further, earnings
announcements and guidance are necessary pipelines of information for research analysts to
support the basis of their investment recommendations.

2004), 69 FR 77804 (Dec. 28, 2004) (notice of filing of proposed NYSE Rule 470 and NASD Rule 2712
which would codify, in part, the above recommendations) (SR-NYSE-2004-12 and SR-NASD-2003-140).
139
In 2005, there have been 61 IPOs so far that have listed on the NYSE. In 2004, there were 69 NYSE-listed
IPOs. Further, in a recent Wall Street Journal article, it was noted that “there are 115 initial public
offerings of stock valued at $20.9 billion waiting to price in the U.S. in 2006, according to data from deal
tracker Dealogic LLC.” Lynn Cowan, IPO Market Looks Strong in 2006, Wall St. J., Dec. 19, 2005, at C4.
140
The SEC recognized the importance of timely dissemination of information to the marketplace in its recent
amendments to Form 8-K in which it shortened the filing deadline to four business days after the
occurrence of an event triggering the disclosure requirements of the form. See Securities Act Release No.
8400 and Securities Exchange Act Release No. 49424 (Mar. 16, 2004), 69 FR 15594 (Mar. 25, 2004).
Page 337 of 468

--- PAGE 338 ---
37

The NASD staff does not believe it is necessary to revise the quiet period exceptions to include
any event that triggers the filing of a Form 8-K. The NASD staff continues to believe that
earnings announcements are not causal occurrences that, in and of themselves, connote
significant news or significant events that materially impact a subject company’s financial
condition or operations. Moreover, in the NASD staff’s experience, abolition of the quiet
periods around releases of lock-up agreements would largely obviate the need to expand the
“significant news” exception. These issues have arisen mainly because an earnings
announcement has occurred or will occur within 15 days of the expiration, waiver or termination
of a lock-up agreement. As noted above, the NASD staff further believes that abolition of the
quiet periods around releases of lock-up agreements would increase information flow to the
marketplace.
6.
Restrictions on Personal Trading by Research Analysts
Current Rules
NASD Rule 2711(g) and NYSE Rule 472(e) generally restrict the trading of securities by
“research analyst accounts.”141 Specifically, NASD Rule 2711(g) and NYSE Rule 472(e)
prohibit any research analyst account from:
• purchasing or receiving any securities before the issuer’s initial public offering if the
issuer is principally engaged in the same types of business as companies that the research
analyst follows;
• purchasing or selling any security issued by a company that the research analyst follows,
or any option or derivative of such a security, for a period beginning 30 days before and
ending five days after the publication of a research report concerning the company or a
change in a rating or price target of the company’s securities; and
• purchasing or selling any security or option or derivative of such a security in a manner
inconsistent with the analyst’s most recent recommendation.
The rules include exceptions to these trading restrictions for certain trades that:
• are due to unanticipated significant changes in an analyst’s personal financial
circumstances;
• occur within the 30-day/five-day trading blackout around the publication of a report if the
report is issued due to a significant news event;

141
NASD Rule 2711(a)(6) defines the term “research analyst account” to include any account in which a
research analyst or member of the analyst’s household has a financial interest, or over which the analyst has
discretion or control, other than an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940. The term does not include a “blind trust” account that is controlled by a person other than the
research analyst or household member and neither the analyst nor any household member knows of the
account’s investments or investment transactions. Although NYSE Rule 472 does not employ the term
“research analyst account,” the trading restrictions of NYSE Rule 472(e) and NASD Rule 2711(g) are
coterminous. See NYSE Rule 472.40.
Page 338 of 468

--- PAGE 339 ---
38

• occur within 30 days after an analyst initiates coverage of a company;
• involve shares of diversified registered investment companies; and
• involve interests in an investment fund over which neither the analyst nor a household
member has any investment discretion or control, the research analyst accounts
collectively own no more than 1% of the fund’s assets, and the fund invests no more than
20% of its assets in securities of issuers principally engaged in the same types of business
as companies that the analyst follows.
NASD Rule 2711(g) and NYSE Rule 472(e) also require legal or compliance personnel to pre-
approve all trades of persons who oversee research analysts to the extent such trades involve
equity securities of subject companies covered by the analysts they oversee.
Recommended Changes
Members have suggested the SROs make two principal changes to the personal trading
restrictions. First, members have urged the SROs to expand the exceptions to the personal
trading restrictions to include any investments in funds not controlled by the research analyst or
member of his or her household, regardless of whether the fund is registered as an investment
company and regardless of its holdings. Second, some members that wish to go beyond the SRO
Rules and ban ownership of securities covered by their analysts have asked the SROs to provide
a means for those analysts to divest their holdings without violating the blackout period and
trading against recommendation prohibitions.
The SRO staffs generally agree with these comments and therefore recommend the following
changes to the exceptions to the SRO Rules’ personal trading restrictions.
First, the SRO staffs recommend revising the exceptions to the personal trading restrictions for
investment funds. The current rules do not apply the personal trading restrictions to investments
in diversified registered investment companies and funds that meet certain percentage-of-assets
tests. The SRO staffs recommend that the personal trading restrictions instead not apply to
investments in any fund so long as neither the analyst nor a member of his or her household is
aware of the fund’s holdings or transactions other than through periodic shareholder reports and
sales material based on such reports, and provided that the research analyst account owns no
more than 1% of the assets of the fund.
This would simplify the ability of analysts to invest in mutual funds, variable insurance products
and hedge funds that do not disclose their holdings other than through periodic reports or sales
material based on such reports. The SRO staffs believe that absent discretion or control of an
account or the contemporaneous knowledge of the account’s transactions, a minimal investment
by a research analyst will not tempt the analyst to compromise research objectivity to benefit the
account.
Second, the SRO staffs recommend creating an exemption for firms that voluntarily choose to
prohibit their analysts from owning shares of the companies they cover. The exemption would
allow such a firm to adopt policies that permit research analysts to divest their holdings in an
Page 339 of 468

--- PAGE 340 ---
39

orderly and controlled way with the oversight of the firm’s legal and compliance personnel. The
SRO staffs permitted firms to allow their analysts to divest their holdings in the same manner
when the rule first became effective by delaying for a certain time period implementation of the
personal trading restrictions for firms that wished to ban ownership. With the recommended
change, the rule would allow firms that adopt ownership bans to implement the same divestiture
procedures regardless of when they adopted such a policy.
7.
Disclosure Requirements
Current Rules
NASD Rule 2711(h) and NYSE Rule 472(k) impose a number of disclosure requirements on
member research reports and research analyst public appearances in which the analyst makes a
recommendation or offers an opinion concerning an equity security. The rules require specific
disclosures of conflicts of interest, including where the member firm, the research analyst or a
member of the analyst’s household has a financial interest in the subject company’s securities or
the member or its affiliates have received compensation from the subject company. The rules
also require a number of non-conflicts related disclosures in research reports, including the
meanings of ratings used in the member’s rating system, the distribution of buy, hold, and sell
ratings assigned by the member, and a price chart that plots the assignment or changes of the
analyst’s ratings and price targets for the subject company against the movement of the subject
company’s stock price over time.
Recommended Changes
The SRO staffs have found that these required disclosures promote transparency and provide
important information to enable investors to assess the value of the research in making their
investment decision. However, the SRO staffs are concerned that the sheer volume of the
disclosures may obscure the overall message that the disclosures are attempting to convey: that
the member or research analyst faces conflicts of interest with respect to the subject company.
This problem is compounded by the fact that many members include additional disclosures
required by other jurisdictions, as well as sometimes lengthy disclaimers for their own purposes.
The SRO staffs believe that it would be more effective and useful to investors to know
immediately whether the member firm or research analyst producing the research report is
conflicted, while providing the reader the means to learn more about these conflicts if he or she
chooses to do so.
To accomplish this result, the SRO staffs recommend amending the rules to require that, in lieu
of publication in the research report itself, member firms disclose their conflicts of interest
related to research reports by including a prominent warning on the cover of a research report
that such conflicts of interest exist, together with information on how the reader may obtain more
detail about these conflicts on the member’s Web site. A member would then be required to
include detailed conflicts information on its Web site. The SRO staffs believe that this
disclosure system would be more effective to warn the reader of such conflicts than the current
system of disclosing all conflicts in the back of the report.
Page 340 of 468

--- PAGE 341 ---
40

The SEC has considered using this approach elsewhere to disclose the existence of conflicts of
interest to investors. For example, the SRO staffs understand that in its mutual fund point-of-
sale disclosure proposal,142 the SEC staff found that most investors only want to know about
whether a conflict exists, rather than receiving quantitative or lengthy disclosure about the
precise nature of those conflicts. For that reason, the SEC has proposed requiring a “Yes/No”
disclosure of whether a dealer receives revenue sharing or pays differential compensation with
respect to the sale of mutual funds. The SEC would require that more detailed disclosure about
the nature of any conflicts be provided separately on a mutual fund’s Web site.
Similarly, in commenting on the SEC point-of-sale disclosure proposal, the NASD Mutual Fund
Task Force recommended Internet delivery of point-of-sale documents and prospectuses, a
recommendation that NASD supports.143 The Task Force argued that Internet delivery would
enable investors to obtain the level of disclosure that they wanted in electronic form.
The SRO staffs believe that the research analyst conflict of interest rules similarly lend
themselves to a more targeted means of disclosure. The SRO staffs therefore suggest amending
the SRO Rules to require conflicts of interest disclosure along the lines of the SEC’s point-of-
sale proposal and NASD’s Internet delivery recommendations for mutual fund related
disclosures. This disclosure requirement would ensure that investors obtain prominent disclosure
that a research-related conflict exists, and would permit investors to find additional information
about the conflict on the member’s Web site. It is possible that a similar approach could be used
for disclosure of conflicts in public appearances, as long as the existence of such conflicts is
clearly communicated.
The SRO staffs generally do not believe that vague, so-called “health warnings” that conflicts of
interest “may or may not” exist are useful or effective. In this regard, the SRO Rules would still
require disclosure based on actual conflicts of interest, rather than the possibility of such
conflicts.
The SRO staffs do not recommend Web site disclosure for the non-conflicts related disclosures,
such as the meanings of the member’s ratings and the price chart showing the subject company’s
price movements against the analyst’s assignments of ratings and price targets. The SRO staffs
believe that these disclosures provide useful information that should be readily available to
investors, particularly since they would not be encompassed by the recommended conflict
warning on the cover of the report.
Finally, the SRO staffs recommend the inclusion of non-substantive, technical changes to certain
disclosure requirements in order either to codify past SRO interpretations of the rules or to
clarify the rules’ intent. For example, a research report is required to disclose the meanings of
ratings used in the member’s ratings system only if the report actually includes a rating of the
subject company. Similarly, a price chart is not required for reports that do not include a rating
or price target. In addition, the SRO staffs recommend including the disclosure requirements for
third-party research reports, which are discussed in NASD Notices to Members 02-39 (July

142
Securites Act Release No. 8544 (Feb. 28, 2005), 70 FR 10521 (Mar. 4, 2005).
143
Report of the Mutual Fund Task Force: Mutual Fund Distribution (Mar. 2005),
http://www.nasd.com/web/groups/rules_regs/documents/rules_regs/nasdw_013690.pdf.
Page 341 of 468

--- PAGE 342 ---
41

2002) and 04-18 (Mar. 2004) and NYSE Information Memos 02-26 (June 26, 2002) and 04-10
(Mar. 9, 2004), in the SRO Rules’ text.
8.
Prohibition on Retaliation Against Research Analysts
Current Rules
The SRO Rules currently prohibit any member and any employee of a member who is involved
with the member’s investment banking activities from directly or indirectly retaliating against a
research analyst as a result of an unfavorable research report or public appearance that may
adversely affect the member’s current or prospective investment banking relationship with a
subject company.
Recommended Changes
The SRO staffs believe that under no circumstances is retaliation appropriate against a research
analyst who expresses his or her truly held beliefs about a subject company. As such, the SRO
staffs recommend amending this provision to extend the retaliation prohibition to all employees,
not just those involved in investment banking activities.
9.
Prerequisites for the Research Analyst Qualification Examination
Current Rules
As detailed in Section II, the SRO Rules require an associated person who functions as a
research analyst on behalf of a member to register as such and pass the Research Analyst
Qualification Examination (Series 86/87) or qualify for an exemption. Prior to taking either the
Series 86 or 87, a candidate also must have passed the General Securities Registered
Representative Examination (Series 7), the Limited Registered Representative Examination
(Series 17), or the Canada Module of Series 7 (Series 37 or 38).
The SRO staffs believe it is important for those functioning as research analysts to be familiar
with general industry rules and practices, particularly those of registered representatives, who are
a primary source for distributing research. The SRO staffs believe that the topics on the Series 7
and other eligible prerequisite examinations further develop a sensitivity in research analysts to
the interests of public customers who are the end users of their work product. The SRO staffs
note that a committee of research analysts who were consulted in the development of the Series
86/87 examination program unanimously recommended that research analysts be required to
pass the Series 7 in addition to a more job-specific research analyst qualification examination.
Recommended Changes
Several industry members have asked the SROs to consider eliminating the Series 7 or
alternative prerequisite exam. These firms argue that research analysts should only be tested on
job-specific requirements, and that relevant topics on the Series 7 examination should instead be
imported to the Series 86/87 examinations. The SRO staffs recommend considering this
suggestion, as well as the possibility of substituting for the Series 7 prerequisite a new Capital
Market Professional Examination that is being developed jointly by NASD, the NYSE and
Page 342 of 468

--- PAGE 343 ---
42

regulators in the United Kingdom. While the content of the latter examination has not yet been
precisely determined, it is anticipated that the concepts tested may provide an adequate
foundation of general industry rules and practices for research analysts. The SRO staffs will be
better situated to evaluate this alternative once the new examination has been fully developed
and approved by the SEC.
C.
Other Issues
1.
Fixed-Income Research
On May 19, 2004, The Bond Market Association (“BMA”) issued its “Guiding Principles to
Promote the Integrity of Fixed Income Research,” which are voluntary principles designed to
help firms manage potential conflicts of interest that may arise in their fixed-income research
activities.144 According to the BMA, its Guiding Principles were designed to recognize the
significant differences between fixed-income research and equity research, as well as the
important differences in research regarding individual fixed-income asset classes.
The SRO staffs do not believe it is appropriate at this time to codify any of these principles or
amend the SRO Rules to extend their provisions to fixed-income research. Instead, the SROs are
monitoring the extent to which firms have adopted the BMA Guiding Principles and will
consider further rulemaking after assessing the effectiveness of voluntary compliance.
Meanwhile, the SRO staffs believe that the anti-fraud statutes, as well as existing SRO rules,
such as NASD Rule 2110’s requirement that members “observe high standards of commercial
honor and just and equitable principles of trade” and similar obligations under NYSE Rules 401
and 476(a)(6), can reach any egregious conduct involving fixed-income research.
2.
Issuer Retaliation
As noted above, the source of analysts’ conflicts was not limited solely to their investment
banking relationships, but also included pressure stemming from issuer retaliation. Issuer
retaliation can consist of limiting an analyst’s access to company management or participation in
conference calls, and interfering with other company relationships (such as by prohibiting the
analyst’s firm from managing an issuer’s pension plan). The SRO Rules have insulated analysts
from internal pressures from investment banking personnel by prohibiting retaliation by a
member against a research analyst for issuing an unfavorable research report that adversely
affects a firm’s investment banking relationship with an issuer. The prohibition against
investment banking personnel’s supervising or controlling analysts or participating in the
determination of analyst compensation also protects the analyst from retaliation by the
investment banking department.
Protection from retaliation by an issuer rather than the investment bank is a more difficult
problem to solve. The issue could be addressed through listing standards. However, the NYSE
does not believe amendments to its listing standards and its limited ability to enforce such
standards by delisting is practicable. In this regard, issuer retaliation, unlike other prohibited

144
See Guiding Principles To Promote Integrity of Fixed Income Research, May 2004,
http://www.bondmarkets.com/assets/files/Guiding_Principles_for_Research.pdf.
Page 343 of 468

--- PAGE 344 ---
43

firm conduct, is very fact specific, qualitative rather than quantitative in nature and difficult to
evaluate and discern with absolute certainty.
Accordingly, the NYSE would like to see the practical impact of the CFA/NIRI “Best Practice
Guidelines Governing Analyst/Corporate Issuer Relations” which it has endorsed and
communicated to its listed companies.145 It will continue to monitor the impact of such Best
Practices and will continue to engage the SEC in dialogue to explore other practical ways to
address this issue.
3.
Foreign Regulatory Initiatives
In addition to the SROs, regulators in such jurisdictions as the United Kingdom,146 Canada,147
Japan,148 and Australia149 have implemented or proposed research analyst conflict of interest
rules in some form. Organizations such as the International Organization of Securities
Commissions (“IOSCO”) also have issued guidelines and best practices for their members.150
And the European Union Forum Group (“EU”) released a set of recommendations involving
research analyst conflicts to be included in a directive targeting market abuse and promoting
uniform regulations among the different European Union securities markets.151
These regulatory models share a common goal of reducing bias in the production and
dissemination of research. At the same time, the various initiatives by these regulatory groups
demonstrate that there are a number of approaches to eliminating research analyst conflicts:
some organizations, like IOSCO and the EU, recommend best practices but do not impose

145
The NYSE recently issued a letter to its listed companies encouraging them to consider implementing
CFA/NIRI Best Practice Guidelines Governing the Relationship between Analysts and Corporate Issuers.
See letter dated October 11, 2005 from Richard G. Ketchum, Chief Regulatory Officer, NYSE, to
Exchange Listed Companies.
146
Regulations by the Financial Services Authority, “Discussion Paper No. 15” and “Consultation Paper 171,”
July 2002 and December 2003, respectively.
147
Report issued by Securities Industry Committee on Analyst Standards, which was established by the
Toronto Stock Exchange, the Investment Dealers Association (“IDA”) and the Canadian Venture
Exchange. The report, entitled “Setting Analyst Standards: Recommendations for the Supervision and
Practice of Canadian Securities Industry Analysts” was released in November 2001. IDA “Policy 11,
Analyst Standards,” was issued in June and December 2002.
148
Japanese Securities Dealers Association, “Rules for Handling Analysts’ Reports,” January 2002, revised
January 2003.
149
Securities Institute of Australia and the Securities and Derivatives Industry Association, “Best Practices
Guidelines for Research Integrity,” November 2001.
150
IOSCO is an international organization whose members cooperate to promote high standards of regulation
to protect investors and ensure that markets are fair, efficient and transparent. In September 2003, the
Technical Committee of IOSCO issued a Statement of Principles to guide securities regulators and others in
addressing the conflicts of interest securities analysts may face. These principles are combined with certain
more specific measures designed to eliminate or manage analysts’ conflicts of interest. The Statement of
Principles can be found at http://www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD150.pdf.
151
This group issued a Report and the “Market Abuse Directive” to implement a uniform system of regulation
to handle market abuses in the European Union. The Market Abuse Directive was first issued in December
2002.
Page 344 of 468

--- PAGE 345 ---
44

regulations, while the SRO Rules and rules promulgated by the other regulators take a more
prescriptive approach. These diverse regulatory models sometimes result in differing
requirements that can pose challenges for firms with global research operations.
The SRO staffs support ongoing discussions with their members and international regulatory
groups to promote the most effective and efficient means to manage research analyst conflicts of
interest and to ensure reliable and objective research throughout the world.
VI.
CONCLUSION
The SRO staffs believe that the SRO Rules have been effective in helping to restore integrity to
research by minimizing the influences of investment banking and promoting transparency of
other potential conflicts of interest. Evidence also suggests that investors are benefiting from
more balanced and accurate research to aid their investment decisions. The SRO staffs believe
that certain changes to the SRO Rules would further improve their effectiveness by striking an
even better balance between ensuring objective and reliable research on the one hand and
permitting the flow of information to investors and minimizing costs and burdens to members on
the other.
Page 345 of 468

--- PAGE 346 ---
Page 346 of 468

--- PAGE 347 ---
Page 347 of 468

--- PAGE 348 ---
Page 348 of 468

--- PAGE 349 ---
Page 349 of 468

--- PAGE 350 ---
Page 350 of 468

--- PAGE 351 ---
Page 351 of 468

--- PAGE 352 ---
Page 352 of 468

--- PAGE 353 ---
Page 353 of 468

--- PAGE 354 ---
Page 354 of 468

--- PAGE 355 ---
Page 355 of 468

--- PAGE 356 ---
Page 356 of 468

--- PAGE 357 ---
Page 357 of 468

--- PAGE 358 ---
Page 358 of 468

--- PAGE 359 ---
Page 359 of 468

--- PAGE 360 ---
Page 360 of 468

--- PAGE 361 ---
Page 361 of 468

--- PAGE 362 ---
Page 362 of 468

--- PAGE 363 ---
Page 363 of 468

--- PAGE 364 ---
Page 364 of 468

--- PAGE 365 ---
Page 365 of 468

--- PAGE 366 ---
Page 366 of 468

--- PAGE 367 ---
Page 367 of 468

--- PAGE 368 ---
Page 368 of 468

--- PAGE 369 ---
Page 369 of 468

--- PAGE 370 ---
Page 370 of 468

--- PAGE 371 ---
Page 371 of 468

--- PAGE 372 ---
Page 372 of 468

--- PAGE 373 ---
Page 373 of 468

--- PAGE 374 ---
Page 374 of 468

--- PAGE 375 ---
Page 375 of 468

--- PAGE 376 ---
Page 376 of 468

--- PAGE 377 ---
Page 377 of 468

--- PAGE 378 ---
Page 378 of 468

--- PAGE 379 ---
Page 379 of 468

--- PAGE 380 ---
Page 380 of 468

--- PAGE 381 ---
Page 381 of 468

--- PAGE 382 ---
Page 382 of 468

--- PAGE 383 ---
Page 383 of 468

--- PAGE 384 ---
Page 384 of 468

--- PAGE 385 ---
Page 385 of 468

--- PAGE 386 ---
Page 386 of 468

--- PAGE 387 ---
Page 387 of 468

--- PAGE 388 ---
Page 388 of 468

--- PAGE 389 ---
Page 389 of 468

--- PAGE 390 ---
Page 390 of 468

--- PAGE 391 ---
Page 391 of 468

--- PAGE 392 ---
Page 392 of 468

--- PAGE 393 ---
Page 393 of 468

--- PAGE 394 ---
Page 394 of 468

--- PAGE 395 ---
Page 395 of 468

--- PAGE 396 ---
Page 396 of 468

--- PAGE 397 ---
Page 397 of 468

--- PAGE 398 ---
Page 398 of 468

--- PAGE 399 ---
Page 399 of 468

--- PAGE 400 ---
Page 400 of 468

--- PAGE 401 ---
Page 401 of 468

--- PAGE 402 ---
Page 402 of 468

--- PAGE 403 ---
Page 403 of 468

--- PAGE 404 ---
Page 404 of 468

--- PAGE 405 ---
Page 405 of 468

--- PAGE 406 ---
Page 406 of 468

--- PAGE 407 ---
Page 407 of 468

--- PAGE 408 ---
Page 408 of 468

--- PAGE 409 ---
Page 409 of 468

--- PAGE 410 ---
Page 410 of 468

--- PAGE 411 ---
Page 411 of 468

--- PAGE 412 ---
Page 412 of 468

--- PAGE 413 ---
Page 413 of 468

--- PAGE 414 ---
Page 414 of 468

--- PAGE 415 ---
Page 415 of 468

--- PAGE 416 ---
Page 416 of 468

--- PAGE 417 ---
Page 417 of 468

--- PAGE 418 ---
Page 418 of 468

--- PAGE 419 ---
Page 419 of 468

--- PAGE 420 ---
Page 420 of 468

--- PAGE 421 ---
Page 421 of 468

--- PAGE 422 ---
Page 422 of 468

--- PAGE 423 ---
Page 423 of 468

--- PAGE 424 ---
Page 424 of 468

--- PAGE 425 ---
Page 425 of 468

--- PAGE 426 ---
Page 426 of 468

--- PAGE 427 ---
Page 427 of 468

--- PAGE 428 ---
Page 428 of 468

--- PAGE 429 ---
Page 429 of 468

--- PAGE 430 ---
Page 430 of 468

--- PAGE 431 ---
Page 431 of 468

--- PAGE 432 ---
Subject
Global Settlement
SRO Rules
Reporting Lines
Undertaking I.1
NASD Rule 2711(b)(1) and NYSE Rule 472(b)(1)
Research may not report directly or indirectly through
investment banking. Head of research may report to person to
whom investment banking head also reports, provided that such
person has no direct responsibility for investment banking
activities.
No research analyst may be subject to the supervision or control of
any employee of the member's investment banking department, and
no person engaged in investment banking activities may have any
influence or control over the compensatory evaluation of a research
analyst.
Definition of “Research
Report”
Undertaking I.1.e
NASD Rule 2711(a)(8) and NYSE Rule 472.10(2)
Limited to communications to U.S. investors. Excludes
quantitative analysis concerning sectors, industries or indexes.
Also excludes analyses for current customers (without limit).
Not limited to communications to U.S. investors. Does not exclude
quantitative analyses, although interpretations exclude analyses of
sectors, industries or indexes. Current customer analysis exclusion
limited to 15 customers.
Legal/Compliance
Undertaking I.2
N/A
Research must have its own dedicated legal and compliance
staff, who may be part of the firm's overall compliance/legal
infrastructure.
No similar requirement.
Budget
Undertaking I.3
NASD Rules 2711(d)(2) and (h)(2)(A)(i)(a) and NYSE Rules
472(h)(2) and (k)(1)(ii)a.2
Research budget must be determined by senior management
without input from investment banking, and without regard to
investment banking revenues. Firm revenues as a whole may be
considered. Audit Committee must ensure compliance with this
provision annually.
A firm's overall profitability may be considered in determining the
compensation component of a firm's research budget, but this
component may not be based on profitability of firm's investment
banking department or division. In addition, if a research analyst's
compensation is based upon the firm's overall profitability which
includes investment banking revenues, this fact must be disclosed.
Physical Separation
Undertaking I.4
N/A
Research and investment banking must be physically separated. No similar requirement.
Comparison of Global Settlement and SRO Rules
Page 1 of 7
Page 432 of 468

--- PAGE 433 ---
Subject
Global Settlement
SRO Rules
Compensation
Undertaking I.5
NASD Rule 2711(d) and NYSE Rule 472(h)
Compensation of research personnel must be determined
exclusively by research management and firm's senior
management based on following principles: (A) Investment
banking will have no input. (B) Compensation may not be based
on IB revenues or results (firm results OK). (C) A significant
portion of the lead analyst's compensation must be based on the
quality and accuracy of the lead analyst's research, analysis,
ratings and price targets. (D) Certain other factors may be taken
into consideration. (E) Compensation criteria determined by
research management and firm's senior management (not
including IB) and set forth in writing in advance. (F) Research
management must document the basis for such compensation.
Compensation committee of firm's parent company will conduct
annual compliance review.
Analysts may not receive compensation based on a specific
investment banking transaction. Lead analysts' compensation must
be reviewed and approved by a compensation committee that does
not have any representation from the IB department. The committee
must consider the following factors: (A) the analyst's individual
performance, including his productivity and the quality of his
research; (B) the correlation between the analyst's recommendations
and the stock price performance; and (C) the overall ratings received
from clients, sales force, and peers independent from the firm's IB
department, and other independent ratings services. The analyst's
contributions to IB department may not be considered.
Documentation and attestation requirements.
Evaluations
Undertaking I.6
NASD Rule 2711(d)(2) and NYSE Rule 472(h)(2)
Evaluations of research personnel will not be done by, nor will
there by input from, investment banking.
Research analyst compensation review committee may not have
representation from investment banking.
Coverage
Undertaking I.7
NASD Rules 2711(b)(1) and (b)(3)(A) and NYSE Rules
472(b)(1) and (b)(3)(i)
Investment banking will have no input into company-specific
coverage decisions (initiation or termination), and IB revenues
will not be taken into account in making company-specific
coverage decisions. Provision does not apply to industry sector
coverage decisions.
No research analyst may be subject to the supervision or control of
any employee of a member's investment banking department. In
addition, any discussion regarding research coverage would have to
be intermediated by legal and compliance.
Termination of Coverage
Undertaking I.8
NASD Rule 2711(f)(5) and NYSE Rule 472(f)(6)
Requires a firm to provide a final research report when it decides
to terminate coverage of a particular company. Firm must use
the same means of disseminating the final report that it
ordinarily uses. No final report is required if the prior coverage
was purely quantitative. The report must be comparable to prior
reports, unless impracticable. The report must disclose notice of
termination and the rational for the decision to terminate
coverage.
Requires notice of termination if a member intends to terminate
coverage of a subject company. Firm must use the same means of
disseminating the final report that it ordinarily uses. The report
must be comparable in scope and detail to prior reports and must
include a final rating or recommendation unless impracticable. If
impracticable to produce a final rating or recommendation, report
must disclose the rationale for the decision to terminate coverage.
Page 2 of 7
Page 433 of 468

--- PAGE 434 ---
Subject
Global Settlement
SRO Rules
Prohibition on Soliciting
Investment Banking
Business
Undertaking I.9
NASD Rule 2711(c)(4) and NYSE Rule 472(b)(5)
Research is prohibited from participating in efforts to solicit IB
business. Among other things, research may not participate in
pitches with prospective IB clients or have other
communications with companies for the purpose of soliciting IB
business.
Same rule.
Firewalls Between Research
and Investment Banking
Undertaking I.10
NASD Rules 2711(b)(2) and (b)(3) and NYSE Rules 472(b)(2)
and (b)(3)
Sets forth detailed "firewall" restrictions regarding
communications between research and investment banking
during the period that research is assisting IB in selecting
prospective IB clients. Allows research personnel to assist in
confirming the adequacy of disclosures in offering documents
and pricing of transactions subject to certain conditions. Allows
research to attend widely attended conferences and firm
meetings at which matters of general firm interest are discussed.
Allows IB and research to discuss compliance issues in presence
of internal compliance personnel. Allows communications
between IB and research personnel not related to IB or research
without restriction.
Generally requires written or oral communications between non-
research and research personnel regarding the content of a research
report to be documented and conducted through or in the presence
of legal or compliance personnel. Non-research personnel may only
review a research report to verify its factual accuracy or to identify
potential conflicts of interest.
Road Shows
Undertaking I.11
NASD Rules 2711(c)(5) and (c)(6) and NYSE Rules 472(b)(6)
Prohibits research personnel from participating in company or
investment banking-sponsored road shows related to a public
offering or other IB transaction. IB is prohibited from directing
research personnel to engage in marketing or selling efforts to
investors with respect to an IB transaction.
Same rule. Also prohibits research analysts from communicating
with customers regarding investment banking transactions in
presence of IB personnel or company management. Research
analyst communications with customers or internal personnel
regarding IB transactions must be fair and balanced.
Page 3 of 7
Page 434 of 468

--- PAGE 435 ---
Subject
Global Settlement
SRO Rules
Oversight
Undertaking I.12
N/A
Requires firms to create an oversight committee of research
management to review changes in ratings or price targets, review
reports to determine whether changes in ratings or price targets
should be considered, and to monitor overall research report
quality. Exceptions for quantitative analysis.
No similar requirement.
Disclosure
Undertaking II.1
NASD Rule 2711(h) and NYSE Rule 472(k)(1)
Requires firms to disclose on first page of a research report, in
addition to other disclosures required by rule, that firm does or
seeks to do business with companies covered by its reports and
that as a result, investors should be aware that conflicts of
interest could affect the report's objectivity. Requires disclosure
of availability of independent research for listed companies.
Must disclose that investors should consider the report only as a
single factor in making their investment decision.
The SRO Rules have more specific and comprehensive disclosure
requirements than these. For example, the SRO Rules require a firm
to disclose if it or an affiliate (a) managed or co-managed a public
offering of securities for the subject company in the last 12 months,
(b) received investment banking compensation from the subject
company in the past 12 months, or (c) expects to receive or intends
to seek investment banking compensation from the subject company
in the next 3 months.
Transparency of Analysts'
Performance
Undertaking II.2
NASD Rules 2711(h)(4), (5) and (6) and NYSE Rules
472(k)(1)(i)(f), (g), and (h)
Requires firms to make available on their web sites after the
conclusion of each quarter certain information regarding the
analyst's research for each subject company, such as the date of
the report, rating, price target, period within which price target is
to be achieved, EPS forecast, and definitions of ratings.
Research analysts must disclose in research reports the meanings of
the ratings used in the firm's ratings system, a percentage
distribution of the buy, hold and sell ratings that the firm assigns to
subject companies it covers, including the percentage of these
companies that are firm IB clients, and a price chart that shows the
movement of the subject company's stock price and the dates on
which the analyst assigned or changed a rating or price target.
Investor Education
Undertaking II.3
N/A
Requires firms to pay fine to pay for investor education pursuant
to plan administered by SEC, NASD and NYSE, with remainder
going to NASAA for same purpose.
No similar requirement.
Page 4 of 7
Page 435 of 468

--- PAGE 436 ---
Subject
Global Settlement
SRO Rules
Applicability
Undertaking II.4
NASD Rule 2711(a)(8) and NYSE Rule 472.10(2)
Applies Undertaking restrictions only to research reports that are
prepared by the firm and that related to either a U.S. company or
a non-U.S. company for which the U.S. is a principal equity
trading market. Applies coverage and disclosure requirements,
above, to any report furnished by a firm to U.S. investors.
Definition of "research report" does not contain this limitation; thus,
it includes research on non-U.S. companies. The SRO Rules require
limited disclosures for reports prepared by foreign affiliates and
other third-party research distributed to customers.
Policies and Procedures
Undertaking II.5
NASD Rule 2711(i) and NYSE Rule 472(c)
Prohibits a firm from knowingly doing indirectly that which it
cannot do directly under the Undertaking. Requires firms to
adopt policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that
a firm's associated persons do not seek to influence the contents
of research reports for the purpose of obtaining investment
banking business. Policies must instruct firm personnel to report
violations of this proscription.
Members must adopt and implement procedures reasonably
designed to ensure the member and its employees comply with the
SRO Rules. Senior officer must attest that the member has adopted
and implemented these procedures.
Independent Monitor
Undertaking II.7
N/A
Requires each firm to retain at its own expense an independent
monitor to review implementation of the Undertaking. Sets forth
detailed rules governing how independent monitor will work.
No similar requirement.
Independent, Third-Party
Research
Undertaking III
N/A
Sets forth detailed requirements for firms to procure and make
available for their clients independent research on listed
companies that they cover (other than quantitative research).
No similar requirement.
Restrictions on
Communications with the
Subject Company
N/A
NASD Rule 2711(c)(1) and (c)(2) and NYSE Rule 472(b)(4)
No similar provisions.
Members may not submit research reports to subject companies
before their publication except to review the factual accuracy of a
report, and subject to conditions.
Page 5 of 7
Page 436 of 468

--- PAGE 437 ---
Subject
Global Settlement
SRO Rules
Prohibitions on Promises of
Favorable Research
N/A
NASD Rule 2711(e) and NYSE Rule 472(g)(1)
No similar provisions.
Members may not offer favorable research or a specific rating or
price target, or threaten to change any research, rating or price target
to induce the receipt of business or compensation.
Restrictions on Publishing
Research
N/A
NASD Rules 2711(f)(1), (2), (3) and (4) and NYSE Rules
472(f)(1), (2), (3), (4) and (5)
No similar provisions.
Members are subject to "quiet periods" during which they may not
publish research and analysts may not make public appearances
following initial and secondary offerings and around the
termination, waiver or expiration of "lock-up" agreements, subject
to certain exceptions.
Restrictions on Personal
Trading by Analysts
N/A
NASD Rule 2711(g) and NYSE Rule 472(e)
No similar provisions.
Research analysts face a number of restrictions on the trading of
securities that they cover, such as prohibitions on trading against
recommendations and trading blackouts around the time research is
issued or ratings are changed.
Disclosure Requirements for
Analyst Public Appearances
N/A
NASD Rule 2711(h) and NYSE Rule 472(k)(2)
No similar provisions.
Research analysts must make disclosures when discussing stocks in
public appearances, such as whether the member has received
investment banking compensation from the issuer or the analyst has
a financial interest in the issuer.
Other Disclosure
Requirements for Research
Reports
N/A
NASD Rule 2711(h) and NYSE Rule 472(k)(1)
No similar provisions.
Members must disclose in research reports firm and analyst
ownership of subject company securities and receipt of non-
investment banking compensation from subject company.
Retaliation Against Analysts N/A
NASD Rule 2711(j) and NYSE Rule 472(g)(2)
No similar provisions.
Members are prohibited from retaliating against or threatening
analysts as a result of adverse or unfavorable research or public
appearance written or made by the analyst.
Registration of Research
Analysts
N/A
NASD Rule 1050 and NYSE Rules 344 and 473
Page 6 of 7
Page 437 of 468

--- PAGE 438 ---
Subject
Global Settlement
SRO Rules
No similar provisions.
Research analysts must pass qualification exams (Series 86/87) and
register with their members' SRO. Certain exceptions for foreign
and technical analysts.
Analyst Continuing
Education Requirements
N/A
NASD Rule 1120 and NYSE Rule 345A
No similar provisions.
Research analysts and their supervisors must satisfy certain
continuing education requirements.
Page 7 of 7
Page 438 of 468

--- PAGE 439 ---

Page 439 of 468

Exhibit 5

Exhibit 5 shows the text of the proposed rule change. Proposed new language is underlined;
proposed deletions are in brackets.
* * * * *
Text of Proposed New FINRA Rule
* * * * *
2242. Debt Research Analysts and Debt Research Reports
(a) Definitions
For purposes of this Rule, the following terms shall be defined as provided.
(1) “Debt research analyst” means an associated person who is primarily
responsible for, and any associated person who reports directly or indirectly to a
debt research analyst in connection with, the preparation of the substance of a debt
research report, whether or not any such person has the job title of “research
analyst.”
(2) “Debt research analyst account” means any account in which a debt
research analyst or member of the debt research analyst’s household has a
financial interest, or over which such analyst has discretion or control. This term
shall not include an investment company registered under the Investment
Company Act over which the debt research analyst or a member of the debt
research analyst’s household has discretion or control, provided that the debt
research analyst or member of a debt research analyst’s household has no
financial interest in such investment company, other than a performance or
management fee. The term also shall not include a “blind trust” account that is
controlled by a person other than the debt research analyst or member of the debt

--- PAGE 440 ---

Page 440 of 468

research analyst’s household where neither the debt research analyst nor a
member of the debt research analyst’s household knows of the account’s
investments or investment transactions.
(3) “Debt research report” means any written (including electronic)
communication that includes an analysis of a debt security or an issuer of a debt
security and that provides information reasonably sufficient upon which to base
an investment decision, excluding communications that solely constitute an equity
research report as defined in Rule 2241(a)(11). In general, this term shall not
include:
(A) communications that are limited to the following, if they do not
include an analysis of, or recommend or rate, individual debt securities or
issuers:

(i) discussions of broad-based indices;
(ii) commentaries on economic, political or market conditions;
(iii) commentaries on or analyses of particular types of debt
securities or characteristics of debt securities;

(iv) technical analyses concerning the demand and supply for a
sector, index or industry based on trading volume and price;
(v) recommendations regarding increasing or decreasing
holdings in particular industries or sectors or types of debt securities;
or
(vi) notices of ratings or price target changes, provided that the
member simultaneously directs the readers of the notice to the most

--- PAGE 441 ---

Page 441 of 468

recent debt research report on the subject company that includes all
current applicable disclosures required by this Rule and that such
debt research report does not contain materially misleading
disclosure, including disclosures that are outdated or no longer
applicable;
(B) the following communications, even if they include an analysis of
an individual debt security or issuer and information reasonably sufficient
upon which to base an investment decision:

(i) statistical summaries of multiple companies' financial data,
including listings of current ratings that do not include an analysis of
individual companies’ data;
(ii) an analysis prepared for a specific person or a limited
group of fewer than 15 persons;
(iii) periodic reports or other communications prepared for
investment company shareholders or discretionary investment
account clients that discuss individual debt securities in the context
of a fund's or account's past performance or the basis for previously
made discretionary investment decisions; or
(iv) internal communications that are not given to current or
prospective customers; and
(C) communications that constitute statutory prospectuses that are
filed as part of the registration statement.
(4) “Debt security” means any “security” as defined in Section 3(a)(10) of

--- PAGE 442 ---

Page 442 of 468

the Exchange Act, except for any “equity security” as defined in Section 3(a)(11) of
the Exchange Act, any “municipal security” as defined in Section 3(a)(29) of the
Exchange Act, any “security-based swap” as defined in Section 3(a)(68) of the
Exchange Act, and any “U.S. Treasury Security” as defined in paragraph (p) of Rule
6710.
(5) “Debt trader” means a person, with respect to transactions in debt
securities, who is engaged in proprietary trading or the execution of transactions
on an agency basis.
(6) “Independent third-party debt research report” means a third-party
debt research report, in respect of which the person producing the report:
(A) has no affiliation or business or contractual relationship with
the distributing member or that member’s affiliates that is reasonably likely
to inform the content of its research reports; and
(B) makes content determinations without any input from the
distributing member or that member’s affiliates.
(7) “Institutional investor” means any person that satisfies the requirements of
paragraph (j)(1)(A) or (B) of this Rule.

(8) “Investment banking department” means any department or division,
whether or not identified as such, that performs any investment banking service on
behalf of a member.
(9) “Investment banking services” include, without limitation, acting as an
underwriter, participating in a selling group in an offering for the issuer or
otherwise acting in furtherance of a public offering of the issuer; acting as a

--- PAGE 443 ---

Page 443 of 468

financial adviser in a merger or acquisition; providing venture capital or equity lines
of credit or serving as placement agent for the issuer or otherwise acting in
furtherance of a private offering of the issuer.
(10) “Member of a debt research analyst’s household” means any individual
whose principal residence is the same as the debt research analyst’s principal
residence. This term shall not include an unrelated person who shares the same
residence as a debt research analyst, provided that the debt research analyst and
unrelated person are financially independent of one another.
(11) “Public appearance” means any participation in a conference call,
seminar, forum (including an interactive electronic forum) or other public speaking
activity before 15 or more persons or before one or more representatives of the
media, a radio, television or print media interview, or the writing of a print media
article, in which a debt research analyst makes a recommendation or offers an
opinion concerning a debt security or an issuer of a debt security. This term shall not
include a password protected Webcast, conference call or similar event with
15 or more existing customers, provided that all of the event participants previously
received the most current debt research report or other documentation that contains
the required applicable disclosures, and that the debt research analyst appearing at
the event corrects and updates during the event any disclosures in the debt research
report that are inaccurate, misleading or no longer applicable.
(12) “Qualified institutional buyer” has the same meaning as under Rule
144A of the Securities Act.
(13) “Retail investor” means any person other than an institutional

--- PAGE 444 ---

Page 444 of 468

investor.
(14) “Research department” means any department or division, whether or
not identified as such, that is principally responsible for preparing the substance of a
debt research report on behalf of a member.
(15) “Subject company” means the company whose debt securities are the
subject of a debt research report or a public appearance.
(16) “Third-party debt research report” means a debt research report that is
produced by a person or entity other than the member.
(b) Identifying and Managing Conflicts of Interest
(1) A member must establish, maintain and enforce written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to identify and effectively manage conflicts of
interest related to:
(A) the preparation, content and distribution of debt research
reports;
(B) public appearances by debt research analysts; and
(C) the interaction between debt research analysts and those
outside of the research department, including investment banking
department personnel, sales and trading personnel, principal trading
personnel, subject companies and customers;
(2) A member’s written policies and procedures must be reasonably
designed to promote objective and reliable debt research that reflects the truly held
opinions of debt research analysts and to prevent the use of debt research reports or
debt research analysts to manipulate or condition the market or favor the interests of

--- PAGE 445 ---

Page 445 of 468

the member or a current or prospective customer or class of customers. Such
policies and procedures must at a minimum:

(A) prohibit prepublication review, clearance or approval of debt
research reports by:
(i) investment banking personnel;
(ii) principal trading personnel; and
(iii) sales and trading personnel;

(B) restrict or prohibit prepublication review, clearance or approval
of debt research reports by other persons not directly responsible for the
preparation, content and distribution of debt research reports, other than
legal and compliance personnel;

(C) restrict or limit input by investment banking department, sales
and trading and principal trading personnel into debt research coverage
decisions to ensure that research management independently makes all
final decisions regarding the research coverage plan;
(D) limit supervision of a debt research analyst to persons not
engaged in:
(i) investment banking services transactions (such persons
shall also be precluded from input into the compensation of debt
research analysts);
(ii) principal trading activities (such persons shall also be
precluded from input into the compensation of debt research
analysts); or

--- PAGE 446 ---

Page 446 of 468

(iii) sales and trading;
(E) limit determination of the debt research department budget to
senior management, excluding senior management engaged in investment
banking services or principal trading activities, and without regard to specific
revenues or results derived from investment banking. Revenues and results
of the firm as a whole, however, may be considered in determining the debt
research department budget and allocation of debt research department
expenses. Nothing in this provision shall require a member to prohibit any
personnel from providing to senior management input regarding the demand
for and quality of debt research, including product trends and customer
interests;
(F) prohibit compensation based upon specific investment
banking services or specific trading transactions or contributions to a
member’s investment banking services or principal trading activities;
(G) require that the compensation of a debt research analyst who is
primarily responsible for the substance of a research report be reviewed and
approved at least annually by a committee that reports to a member’s board
of directors, or if the member has no board of directors, a senior executive
officer of the member. This committee may not have representation from
investment banking personnel or persons engaged in principal trading
activities and must consider the following factors when reviewing a debt
research analyst’s compensation, if applicable:
(i) the debt research analyst’s individual performance,

--- PAGE 447 ---

Page 447 of 468

including the analyst’s productivity and the quality of the debt
research analyst’s research; and
(ii) the overall ratings received from customers and peers
(independent of the member’s investment banking department and
persons engaged in principal trading activities) and other
independent ratings services.
Sales and trading personnel, but not personnel engaged in principal
trading activities, may provide input to debt research management into the
evaluation of the debt research analyst in order to convey customer
feedback; provided, however, that final compensation determinations must
be made by research management, subject to review and approval by the
committee described in this subparagraph (G).

The committee must document the basis upon which each such
research analyst’s compensation was established, including any input
from sales and trading;
(H) establish information barriers or other institutional safeguards to
ensure that debt research analysts are insulated from the review, pressure or
oversight by persons engaged in:
(i) investment banking services;
(ii) principal trading or sales and trading activities; and
(iii) other persons who might be biased in their judgment or
supervision;
(I) prohibit direct or indirect retaliation or threat of retaliation

--- PAGE 448 ---

Page 448 of 468

against debt research analysts by any employee of the member as the
result of an adverse, negative, or otherwise unfavorable debt research
report or public appearance written or made by the debt research analyst
that may adversely affect the member's present or prospective business
interests;
(J) restrict or limit debt research analyst account trading in
securities, any derivatives of such securities and any fund whose
performance is materially dependent upon the performance of securities
covered by the debt research analyst, including:
(i) ensuring that debt research analyst accounts,
supervisors of debt research analysts and associated persons
with the ability to influence the content of debt research reports do not
benefit in their trading from knowledge of the content or timing of a
debt research report before the intended recipients of such debt
research have had a reasonable opportunity to act on the information
in the debt research report; and
(ii) providing that no debt research analyst account may
purchase or sell any security or any option on or derivative of such
security in a manner inconsistent with the research analyst's
recommendation as reflected in the most recent debt research report
published by the member, and defining financial hardship
circumstances, if any (e.g., unanticipated significant change in the
personal financial circumstances of the beneficial owner of the

--- PAGE 449 ---

Page 449 of 468

research analyst account), in which the member will permit a debt
research analyst account to trade in a manner inconsistent with such
research analyst's most recently published recommendation;
(K) prohibit explicit or implicit promises of favorable debt research,
a particular debt research rating or recommendation or specific debt research
content as inducement for the receipt of business or compensation;
(L) restrict or limit activities by debt research analysts that can
reasonably be expected to compromise their objectivity, including
prohibiting:
(i) participation in pitches and other solicitations of
investment banking services transactions; and
(ii) participation in road shows and other marketing on
behalf of an issuer related to an investment banking services
transaction;
(M) prohibit investment banking department personnel from
directly or indirectly:

(i) directing a debt research analyst to engage in sales or
marketing efforts related to an investment banking services
transaction; and
(ii) directing a debt research analyst to engage in any
communication with a current or prospective customer about an
investment banking services transaction;
(N) prohibit prepublication review of a debt research report by a

--- PAGE 450 ---

Page 450 of 468

subject company for purposes other than verification of facts.
(c) Content and Disclosure in Debt Research Reports
(1) A member must establish, maintain and enforce written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that:
(A) purported facts in its debt research reports are based on
reliable information; and
(B) any recommendation or rating has a reasonable basis and is
accompanied by a clear explanation of any valuation method used and a
fair presentation of the risks that may impede achievement of the
recommendation or rating.
(2) A member that employs a rating system must clearly define in each debt
research report the meaning of each rating in the system, including the time horizon
and any benchmarks on which a rating is based. The definition of each rating must
be consistent with its plain meaning.
(A) Irrespective of the rating system a member employs, a member
must include in each debt research report that includes a rating the percentage
of all debt securities rated by the member to which the member would assign
a “buy,” “hold” or “sell” rating.
(B) A member must disclose in each debt research report the
percentage of subject companies within each of the “buy,” “hold” and
“sell” categories for which the member has provided investment banking
services within the previous 12 months.
(C) The information required in paragraphs (c)(2)(A) and (B) of this

--- PAGE 451 ---

Page 451 of 468

Rule must be current as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter or the
second most recent calendar quarter if the publication date of the debt
research report is less than 15 calendar days after the most recent calendar
quarter.
(3) If a debt research report contains a rating for a subject company’s debt
security, and the member has assigned a rating to such debt security for at least one
year, the debt research report must show each date on which a member has assigned
a rating and the rating assigned on such date. The member must include this
information for the period that the member has assigned any rating or for a three-
year period, whichever is shorter.
(4) A member must disclose in any debt research report at the time of
publication or distribution of the report:
(A) if the debt research analyst or a member of the debt research
analyst’s household has a financial interest in the debt or equity securities of
the subject company (including, without limitation, any option, right, warrant,
future, long or short position), and the nature of such interest;
(B) if the debt research analyst has received compensation based
upon (among other factors) the member’s investment banking, sales
and trading or principal trading revenues;
(C) if the member or any of its affiliates:
(i) managed or co-managed a public offering of securities for
the subject company in the past 12 months;
(ii) received compensation for investment banking

--- PAGE 452 ---

Page 452 of 468

services from the subject company in the past 12 months; or
(iii) expects to receive or intends to seek compensation
for investment banking services from the subject company in
the next three months;
(D) if, as of the end of the month immediately preceding the date of
publication or distribution of a debt research report (or the end of the second
most recent month if the publication date is less than 30 calendar days after
the end of the most recent month) the member or its affiliates have received
from the subject company any compensation for products or services other
than investment banking services in the previous 12 months;
(E) if the subject company is, or over the 12-month period preceding
the date of publication or distribution of the debt research report has been, a
client of the member, and if so, the types of services provided to the issuer.
Such services, if applicable, shall be identified as either investment banking
services, non-investment banking securities-related services or non-
securities services;
(F) if the member trades or may trade as principal in the debt
securities (or in related derivatives) that are the subject of the debt
research report;
(G) if the debt research analyst received any compensation from the
subject company in the previous 12 months; and
(H) any other material conflict of interest of the debt research analyst
or member that the debt research analyst or an associated person of the

--- PAGE 453 ---

Page 453 of 468

member with the ability to influence the content of a debt research report
knows or has reason to know at the time of the publication or distribution of a
debt research report.
(5) A member or debt research analyst will not be required to make a
disclosure required by paragraph (c)(4) of this Rule to the extent such disclosure
would reveal material non-public information regarding specific potential future
investment banking transactions of the subject company.
(6) Except as provided in subparagraph (7), the disclosures required by this
paragraph (c) must be presented on the front page of debt research reports or the front
page must refer to the page on which the disclosures are found. Electronic debt
research reports may provide a hyperlink directly to the required disclosures. All
disclosures and references to disclosures required by this Rule must be clear,
comprehensive and prominent.
(7) A member that distributes a debt research report covering six or more
subject companies (a “compendium report”) may direct the reader in a clear manner
as to where the reader may obtain applicable current disclosures required by this
paragraph (c). Electronic compendium reports must include a hyperlink to the
required disclosures. Paper-based compendium reports must provide either a toll-free
number to call or a postal address to request the required disclosures and also may
include a web address of the member where the disclosures can be found.
(d) Disclosure in Public Appearances
(1) A debt research analyst must disclose in public appearances:
(A) if the debt research analyst or a member of the debt research

--- PAGE 454 ---

Page 454 of 468

analyst’s household has a financial interest in the debt or equity securities of
the subject company (including, without limitation, whether it consists of any
option, right, warrant, future, long or short position), and the nature of such
interest;
(B) if, to the extent the debt research analyst knows or has reason
to know, the member or any affiliate received any compensation from the
subject company in the previous 12 months;
(C) if the debt research analyst received any compensation from the
subject company in the previous 12 months;
(D) if, to the extent the debt research analyst knows or has reason to
know, the subject company currently is, or during the 12-month period
preceding the date of publication or distribution of the debt research report,
was, a client of the member. In such cases, the debt research analyst also
must disclose the types of services provided to the subject company, if
known by the debt research analyst; or
(E) any other material conflict of interest of the debt research analyst
or member that the debt research analyst knows or has reason to know at the
time of the public appearance.
(2) A member or debt research analyst will not be required to make a
disclosure required by this paragraph (d) to the extent such disclosure would
reveal material non-public information regarding specific potential future
investment banking transactions of the subject company.

(3) Members must maintain records of public appearances by debt research

--- PAGE 455 ---

Page 455 of 468

analysts sufficient to demonstrate compliance by those debt research analysts with
the applicable disclosure requirements in this paragraph (d). Such records must be
maintained for at least three years from the date of the public appearance.
(e) Disclosure Required by Other Provisions
In addition to the disclosures required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Rule,
members and debt research analysts must comply with all applicable disclosure
provisions of Rule 2210 and the federal securities laws.
(f) Distribution of Member Research Reports
A member must establish, maintain and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to ensure that a debt research report is not distributed selectively to
trading personnel or a particular customer or class of customers in advance of other
customers that the member has previously determined are entitled to receive the debt
research report.
(g) Distribution of Third-Party Debt Research Reports
(1) A member may not distribute third-party debt research if it knows or
has reason to know such research is not objective or reliable.
(2) A member must establish, maintain and enforce written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to ensure that any third-party debt research
report it distributes contains no untrue statement of material fact and is otherwise
not false or misleading. For the purposes of this paragraph (g)(2) only, a
member’s obligation to review a third-party debt research report extends to any
untrue statement of material fact or any false or misleading information that:
(A) should be known from reading the debt research report;

--- PAGE 456 ---

Page 456 of 468

or
(B) is known based on information otherwise possessed by the
member.
(3) A member must accompany any third-party debt research report it
distributes with, or provide a web address that directs a recipient to, disclosure of
any material conflict of interest that can reasonably be expected to have influenced
the choice of a third-party debt research report provider or the subject company of a
third-party debt research report, including, at a minimum, the disclosures required by
paragraphs (c)(4)(C), (c)(4)(F) and (c)(4)(H) of this Rule.
(4) A member shall not be required to review a third-party debt research
report to determine compliance with paragraph (g)(2) of this Rule if such debt
research report is an independent third-party debt research report.
(5) A member shall not be considered to have distributed a third-party debt
research report for the purposes of paragraph (g)(3) where the research is an
independent third-party debt research report and made available by a member (a)
upon request; (b) through a member-maintained website; or (c) to a customer in
connection with a solicited order in which the registered representative has informed
the customer, during the solicitation, of the availability of independent debt research
on the solicited debt security and the customer requests such independent debt
research.
(6) A member must ensure that a third-party debt research report is clearly
labeled as such and that there is no confusion on the part of the recipient as to the
person or entity that prepared the debt research report.

--- PAGE 457 ---

Page 457 of 468

(h) Exemption for Members with Limited Investment Banking Activity
The provisions of paragraphs (b)(2)(A)(i), (b)(2)(B), (b)(2)(C) (with respect to
investment banking), (b)(2)(D)(i), (b)(2)(E) (with respect to investment banking), (b)(2)(G)
and (b)(2)(H)(i) and (iii) of this Rule shall not apply to members that over the previous
three years, on average per year, have participated in 10 or fewer investment banking
services transactions as manager or co-manager and generated $5 million or less in gross
investment banking revenues from those transactions; provided, however, that with respect
to paragraph (b)(2)(H)(i) and (iii) of this Rule, such members must establish information
barriers or other institutional safeguards to ensure debt research analysts are insulated from
pressure by persons engaged in investment banking services activities or other persons,
including persons engaged in principal trading or sales and trading activities, who might be
biased in their judgment or supervision. For the purposes of this paragraph (h), the term
“investment banking services transactions” includes the underwriting of both corporate
debt and equity securities but not municipal securities. Members that qualify for this
exemption must maintain records sufficient to establish eligibility for the exemption and
also maintain for at least three years any communication that, but for this exemption, would
be subject to paragraphs (b)(2)(A)(i), (b)(2)(B), (b)(2)(C), (b)(2)(D)(i), (b)(2)(E), (b)(2)(G)
and (b)(2)(H)(i) and (iii) of this Rule.
(i) Exemption for Limited Principal Trading Activity
The provisions of paragraphs (b)(2)(A)(ii) and (iii), (b)(2)(B), (b)(2)(C) (with respect
to sales and trading and principal trading), (b)(2)(D)(ii) and (iii), (b)(2)(E) (with respect to
principal trading), (b)(2)(G) and (b)(2)(H)(ii) and (iii) of this Rule shall not apply to members
where (1) in absolute value on an annual basis, the member’s trading gains or losses on

--- PAGE 458 ---

Page 458 of 468

principal trades in debt securities are $15 million or less over the previous three years, on
average per year; and (2) the member employs fewer than 10 debt traders; provided,
however, that with respect to paragraph (b)(2)(H)(ii) and (iii) of this Rule, such members
must establish information barriers or other institutional safeguards to ensure debt research
analysts are insulated from pressure by persons engaged in principal trading or sales and
trading activities or other persons who might be biased in their judgment or supervision.
Members that qualify for this exemption must maintain records sufficient to establish
eligibility for the exemption and also maintain for at least three years any communication
that, but for this exemption, would be subject to paragraphs (b)(2)(A)(ii) and (iii), (b)(2)(B),
(b)(2)(C), (b)(2)(D)(ii) and (iii), (b)(2)(E), (b)(2)(G) and (b)(2)(H)(ii) and (iii) of this Rule.
(j) Exemption for Debt Research Reports Provided to Institutional
Investors
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this Rule, the provisions of this
Rule shall not apply to the distribution of a debt research report to:

(A) A qualified institutional buyer where, pursuant to Rule
2111(b):

(i) the member or associated person has a reasonable basis
to believe that the qualified institutional buyer is capable of
evaluating investment risks independently, both in general and with
regard to particular transactions and investment strategies involving
a debt security or debt securities; and

(ii) such qualified institutional buyer has affirmatively
indicated that it is exercising independent judgment in evaluating

--- PAGE 459 ---

Page 459 of 468

the member’s recommendations pursuant to Rule 2111 and such
affirmation covers transactions in debt securities; so long as the
member has provided written disclosure to the qualified
institutional buyer that the member may provide debt research
reports that are intended for institutional investors and that are not
subject to all of the independence and disclosure standards
applicable to debt research reports prepared for retail investors. If
the qualified institutional buyer does not contact the member to
request that such institutional debt research not be provided, the
member may reasonably conclude that the qualified institutional
buyer has consented to receiving debt institutional research reports;
or

(B) a person that meets the definition of “institutional account” in
Rule 4512(c); provided that such person, prior to receipt of a debt research
report, has affirmatively notified the member in writing that it wishes to
receive institutional debt research and forego treatment as a retail investor
for the purposes of this Rule.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (j)(1) of this Rule, a member must establish,
maintain and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to
identify and effectively manage conflicts of interest described in paragraphs
(b)(2)(A)(i), (b)(2)(H) (with respect to pressuring), (b)(2)(I), (b)(2)(K), (b)(2)(L),
(b)(2)(M), (b)(2)(N) and Supplementary Material .02(a) of this Rule.
(3) Debt research reports provided to institutional investors pursuant to this

--- PAGE 460 ---

Page 460 of 468

exemption (“institutional debt research”) must disclose prominently on the first
page that:
(A) “This document is intended for institutional investors and is not
subject to all of the independence and disclosure standards applicable to debt
research reports prepared for retail investors.”
(B) If applicable, “The views expressed in this report may differ
from the views offered in [Firm’s] debt research reports prepared for retail
investors.”
(C) If applicable, “This report may not be independent of [Firm’s]
proprietary interests. [Firm] trades the securities covered in this report for its
own account and on a discretionary basis on behalf of certain clients. Such
trading interests may be contrary to the recommendation(s) offered in this
report.”
(4) A member must establish, maintain and enforce written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to ensure that institutional debt research is made
available only to eligible institutional investors. A member may not rely on this
exemption with respect to a debt research report that the member has reason to
believe will be redistributed to a retail investor.
(5) This paragraph (j) does not relieve a member of its obligations to
comply with the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws and FINRA
rules.
(k) Exemption for Good Cause
Pursuant to the Rule 9600 Series, FINRA may in exceptional and unusual

--- PAGE 461 ---

Page 461 of 468

circumstances, conditionally or unconditionally grant an exemption from any requirement of
this Rule for good cause shown after taking into account all relevant factors, to the extent
such exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Rule, the protection of investors, and
the public interest.
• • • Supplementary Material: --------------
.01 Efforts to Solicit Investment Banking Business. FINRA interprets paragraph
(b)(2)(L)(i) of this Rule to prohibit in pitch materials any information about a member’s
debt research capacity in a manner that suggests, directly or indirectly, that the member
might provide favorable debt research coverage. For example, FINRA would consider the
publication in a pitch book or related materials of an analyst’s industry ranking to imply the
potential outcome of future research because of the manner in which such rankings are
compiled. On the other hand, a member would be permitted to include in the pitch materials
the fact of coverage and the name of the debt research analyst because such information
alone does not imply favorable coverage. Members must consider whether the facts and
circumstances of any solicitation or engagement would warrant disclosure under Section
17(b) of the Securities Act.
.02 Restrictions on Communications with Customers and Internal Personnel.
(a) Consistent with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(M) of this Rule, no debt
research analyst may engage in any communication with a current or prospective customer
in the presence of investment banking department personnel or company management about
an investment banking services transaction.
(b) FINRA interprets paragraph (b)(1)(C) of this Rule to, among other things,
require that any written or oral communication by a debt research analyst with a current or

--- PAGE 462 ---

Page 462 of 468

prospective customer or internal personnel related to an investment banking services
transaction must be fair, balanced and not misleading, taking into consideration the overall
context in which the communication is made.
.03 Information Barriers between Research Analysts and Trading Desk Personnel.
(a) FINRA interprets paragraph (b)(1)(C) of this Rule to, among other things,
require members to establish, maintain and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to prohibit:
(1) Sales and trading and principal trading personnel attempting to influence
a debt research analyst's opinion or views for the purpose of benefiting the trading
position of the firm, a customer or a class of customers; and
(2) Debt research analysts identifying or recommending specific potential
trading transactions to sales and trading or principal trading personnel that are
inconsistent with such debt research analyst’s currently published debt research
reports, or disclosing the timing of, or material investment conclusions in, a pending
debt research report.
(b) The following communications between debt research analysts and sales and
trading or principal trading personnel are permitted:
(1) Sales and trading and principal trading personnel may communicate
customers’ interests to a debt research analyst, so long as the debt research analyst
does not respond by publishing debt research for the purpose of benefiting the
trading position of the firm, a customer or a class of customers;
(2) Debt research analysts may provide customized analysis,
recommendations or trade ideas to sales and trading and principal trading personnel

--- PAGE 463 ---

Page 463 of 468

and customers, provided that any such communications are not inconsistent with the
analyst’s currently published or pending debt research, and that any subsequently
published debt research is not for the purpose of benefiting the trading position of
the firm, a customer or a class of customers;
(3) Sales and trading and principal trading personnel may seek the views of
debt research analysts regarding the creditworthiness of the issuer of a debt security
and other information regarding an issuer of a debt security that is reasonably related
to the price/performance of the debt security, so long as, with respect to any covered
issuer, such information is consistent with the debt research analyst’s published debt
research report and consistent in nature with the types of communications that a debt
research analyst might have with customers. In determining what is consistent with
the debt research analyst’s published debt research, a member may consider the
context, including that the investment objectives or time horizons being discussed
differ from those underlying the debt research analyst’s published views; and
(4) Debt research analysts may seek information from sales and trading and
principal trading personnel regarding a particular bond instrument, current prices,
spreads, liquidity and similar market information relevant to the debt research
analyst’s valuation of a particular debt security.
(c) Communications between debt research analysts and sales and trading or
principal trading personnel that are not related to sales and trading, principal trading or
debt research activities may take place without restriction, unless otherwise prohibited.
.04 Disclosure of Compensation Received by Affiliates. A member may satisfy the
disclosure requirement in paragraph (c)(4)(D) of this Rule with respect to receipt of non-

--- PAGE 464 ---

Page 464 of 468

investment banking services compensation by an affiliate by implementing written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to prevent the debt research analyst and associated
persons of the member with the ability to influence the content of debt research reports from
directly or indirectly receiving information from the affiliate as to whether the affiliate
received such compensation. In addition, a member may satisfy the disclosure requirement
in paragraph (c)(4)(C) of this Rule with respect to the receipt of investment banking
compensation from a foreign sovereign by a non-U.S. affiliate of the member by
implementing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent the debt
research analyst and associated persons of the member with the ability to influence the
content of debt research reports from directly or indirectly receiving information from the
non-U.S. affiliate as to whether such non-U.S. affiliate received or expects to receive such
compensation from the foreign sovereign. However, a member must disclose compensation
received by its affiliates from the subject company (including any foreign sovereign) in the
past 12 months when the debt research analyst or an associated person with the ability to
influence the content of a debt research report has actual knowledge that an affiliate received
such compensation during that time period.
.05 Submission of Sections of a Draft Research Report for Factual Review. Consistent
with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(B) and (N) of this Rule, sections of a draft debt
research report may be provided to non-investment banking personnel, non-principal trading
personnel, non-sales and trading personnel or to the subject company for factual review, if:
(a) the sections of the draft debt research report submitted do not contain the
research summary, recommendation or rating;
(b) a complete draft of the debt research report is provided to legal or compliance

--- PAGE 465 ---

Page 465 of 468

personnel before sections of the report are submitted to non-investment banking personnel,
non-principal trading personnel, non-sales and trading personnel or the subject company;
and
(c) if, after submitting sections of the draft debt research report to non-
investment banking personnel, non-principal trading personnel, non-sales and trading
personnel or the subject company, the research department intends to change the
proposed rating or recommendation, it must first provide written justification to, and
receive written authorization from, legal or compliance personnel for the change. The
member must retain copies of any draft and the final version of such debt research report
for three years after publication.
.06 Distribution of Member Research Products. With respect to paragraph (f) of this
Rule, a member may provide different debt research products and services to different
classes of customers. For example, a member may offer one debt research product for those
with a long-term investment horizon (“investor research”) and a different debt research
product for those customers with a short-term investment horizon (“trading research”).
These products may lead to different recommendations or ratings, provided that each is
consistent with the meaning of the member’s ratings system for each respective product.
However, a member may not differentiate a debt research product based on the timing of
receipt of a recommendation, rating or other potentially market moving information, nor
may a member label a debt research product with substantially the same content as a
different debt research product as a means to allow certain customers to trade in advance of
other customers. In addition, a member that provides different debt research products and
services for different customers must inform its other customers that receive a research

--- PAGE 466 ---

Page 466 of 468

product that its alternative debt research products and services may reach different
conclusions or recommendations that could impact the price of the debt security. Thus, for
example, a member that offers trading research must inform its investment research
customers that its trading research product may contain different recommendations or ratings
that could result in short-term price movements contrary to the recommendation in its
investment research.
.07 Ability to Influence the Content of a Research Report. For the purposes of this
Rule, an associated person with the ability to influence the content of a debt research
report is an associated person who, in the ordinary course of that person’s duties, has the
authority to review the debt research report and change that debt research report prior to
publication or distribution.
.08 Obligations of Persons Associated with a Member. Consistent with Rule 0140,
persons associated with a member must comply with such member’s written policies and
procedures as established pursuant to this Rule. Failure of an associated person to comply
with such written policies and procedures shall constitute a violation of this Rule. In
addition, consistent with Rule 0140, it shall be a violation of this Rule for an associated
person to engage in the restricted or prohibited conduct to be addressed through the
establishment, maintenance and enforcement of written policies and procedures required by
this Rule or related Supplementary Material.
.09 Joint Due Diligence. FINRA interprets paragraph (b)(1)(C) to prohibit the performance
of joint due diligence (i.e., confirming the adequacy of disclosure in offering or other
disclosure documents for a transaction) by the debt research analyst in the presence of
investment banking department personnel prior to the selection by the issuer of the

--- PAGE 467 ---

Page 467 of 468

underwriters for the investment banking services transaction.
.10 Divesting Research Analyst Holdings. With respect to paragraph (b)(2)(J)(ii), FINRA
shall not consider a research analyst account to have traded in a manner inconsistent with a
research analyst’s recommendation where a member has instituted a policy that prohibits any
research analyst from holding securities, or options on or derivatives of such securities, of the
companies in the research analyst’s coverage universe; provided that the member establishes
a reasonable plan to liquidate such holdings consistent with the principles in paragraph
(b)(2)(J)(i) and such plan is approved by the member’s legal or compliance department.
.11 Distribution of Institutional Debt Research During Transition Period. A member
may distribute institutional debt research to any person that meets the definition of
“institutional account” in Rule 4512(c), other than a natural person, for a period of up to one-
year after [insert date of approval of the proposed rule change by the Securities and
Exchange Commission] (“the transition period”). After the transition period, a member must
have obtained the necessary consent in either paragraph (j)(1)(A) or (j)(1)(B) to distribute
institutional debt research to a person. Natural persons that qualify as an institutional
account under Rule 4512(c) must provide affirmative written consent to receive institutional
debt research during the year transition period and thereafter. This Supplementary Material
.11 shall automatically sunset at the end of the transition period.
* * * * *
9600. PROCEDURES FOR EXEMPTIONS
9610. Application

(a) Where to File

--- PAGE 468 ---

Page 468 of 468

A member seeking exemptive relief as permitted under NASD Rules 1021, 1050,
1070, 2340, or 3150, or Rules 2114, 2210, 2242, 2310, 2359, 2360, 3170, 4210, 4311, 4320,
4360, 5110, 5121, 5122, 5123, 5130, 6183, 6625, 6731, 7470, 8211, 8213, 11870, or 11900,
or Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board Rule G-37 shall file a written application with the
appropriate department or staff of FINRA.

(b) through (c) No Change.
* * * * *